ARTICLE NUMBER 1

Headline: Marco Rubio suspends his GOP presidential bid
Publish Date: Wednesday, March 16, 2016 at 12:23 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/marco-rubio-suspends-his-gop-presidential-bid/2016/03/15/747f0472-da60-11e5-891a-4ed04f4213e8_story.html?itid=lk_inline_manual_33 
Description: Despite promise, the freshman senator never caught fire and lost his home state of Florida.

Content: “America is in the middle of a real political storm, a tsunami, and we should have seen this coming,” Rubio told supporters in announcing his departure from the race, saying the “politics of resentment” that swamped his campaign. “But I chose a different route and I’m proud of that.”

The conclusion of Rubio’s bid follows a dismal primary record in which he won only three contests and trailed far behind Trump and Cruz. Rubio is not running for reelection for his Senate seat, leaving his future cloudy.

But his campaign proved to be badly out of step with a restive Republican electorate that gravitated to the angriest candidates in the pack: Trump and Cruz. Rubio failed to adapt to the prevailing mood; he never seemed sure about how to deal with Trump’s unlikely rise and late-race efforts to take on him and Cruz fell short.

He also lacked a concrete base of supporters. Polls consistently showed he was the second choice for many voters — a role he seemed content to play, wagering that he would be poised to capi­tal­ize as the field narrowed. He pitched himself to Christian conservatives, defense hawks and suburban centrists, all while staking out hard-right positions on issues such as abortion and gay marriage. He treated each of the four early states as equal priorities. He tried to be many things to many people.

Rubio’s decision to ambush Trump in a late February debate and fling personal insults at him in the days afterward was a pivotal moment in his campaign. After an initial burst of attention, the bottom fell out in a series of nominating contests as voters abandoned a candidate who had long banked on his broad likability to lift him to the top.

Rubio spent the closing days of his campaign hyper-focused on Florida, where he first arrived on the national political scene in 2010 as a tea-party star who felled a popular governor in the Republican primary for the U. S. Senate. But Rubio remained far behind Trump in most polls, and his final events in the state had a wistful and funereal quality similar to the last days of another failed 2016 candidate, former Florida governor Jeb Bush.

Throughout his presidential campaign, Rubio couldn't shake a boom-and-bust cycle that prevented him from becoming a breakout star. He launched his run with a well-received speech at Miami's historic Freedom Tower, where the federal government once processed Cuban immigrants fleeing the regime of Fidel Castro. But then he hunkered down to focus on fundraising, leaving only a light footprint in the early nominating states during the summer and disappointing prospective supporters eager to see more of him.

In August, Rubio emerged as the star of the first debate and won rave establishment reviews in others that followed. But he repeatedly followed up his strong showings on stage with a quiet presence on the campaign trail, leading even some supporters to question how hard he was willing to work.

A stronger than expected third-place showing in Iowa on Feb. 1 gave Rubio a boost heading into New Hampshire, which voted eight days later. Then came disaster: During a Feb. 6 debate, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie mocked Rubio for mechanically repeating himself. Democrats piled on, dispatching staffers to follow him around dressed as robots. Rubio finished a disappointing fifth in the Granite State.

He resurrected his campaign in South Carolina, where he opened himself up to the press, landed the endorsement of popular Gov. Nikki Haley and studiously stayed on message. He finished second to Trump and ahead of Cruz, who his aides felt they effectively branded as a dishonest candidate.

South Carolina would be the final place Rubio would have anything to celebrate. In the more than two dozen contests after that, Rubio notched just three victories — in Minnesota, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia — falling way behind Trump in the delegate tally.

In a Feb. 25 debate, Rubio went hard after Trump, a choice that may have sealed his fate. After avoiding a fight with the front-runner for months and hoping to hold his fire until the field narrowed, Rubio unleashed an uncharacteristic rush of attacks. He deepened them over the next three days, hitting Trump for his spelling errors on social media, accusing him of using spray tanner and calling out Trump’s “small hands” as suggestive of his manhood.

The following Tuesday, Rubio won just one state while Trump won seven and Cruz scored  three wins. A week later, his showing was even worse. In Michigan and Mississippi, he finished last and was shut out of winning any delegates.

Rubio’s campaign team, a small and tight-knit group that prided themselves on not talking about its strategy to the media on the record, operated under the belief that Rubio’s skills as a candidate were its best assets and that through exposure to enough voters, he would win over Republican voters.

They also banked on his personal story — he often told supporters he was the son of a bartender and a maid — and his general election pitch would carry him across the finish line in the GOP primary.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 2

Headline: Trump boasts that his landmark law is freeing these inmates. His Justice Department wants them to stay in prison.
Publish Date: Thursday, November 07, 2019 at 05:50 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/trump-brags-that-his-landmark-law-freed-these-inmates-his-justice-department-wants-them-to-stay-in-prison/2019/11/07/5f075456-f5db-11e9-a285-882a8e386a96_story.html?itid=lk_inline_manual_33 
Description: A striking rift has emerged between White House allies who worked to pass the First Step Act and the Justice Department officials now attempting to limit the number of inmates who might benefit from it.

Content: Accessibility statementSkip to main content

Trump boasts that his landmark law is freeing these inmates. His Justice Department wants them to stay in prison. Former inmate Gregory Allen appeared at the White House in April with President Trump to celebrate the First Step Act, the administration’s criminal justice reform bill. (Bill O’Leary/The Washington Post)The five former inmates assembled on the White House stage weren’t scheduled to speak, but President Trump couldn’t help himself. “Where’s Gregory? Greg?” he said. “Come on, get up here!”From behind the president, Gregory Allen saluted and then made his way to the microphone. “Two months ago, I was in a prison cell, and I’m in the White House,” declared Allen, a Florida resident who had been freed under Trump’s signature criminal justice legislation. “That’s continuing to make America great again!”The gathering in April was a triumphant celebration of the First Step Act, the most sweeping overhaul of the federal criminal justice system in a generation. Since its passage nearly a year ago, the law has led to the release of more than 3,000 inmates — including Allen, who was convicted of cocaine trafficking in 2001.The Justice Department, though, had never wanted to let Allen out of prison. In fact, even as he and Trump shared a joyous embrace on television, federal prosecutors were trying to persuade a judge to put Allen back behind bars.The president has repeatedly pointed to the First Step Act as one of his administration’s chief bipartisan achievements and one for which he is personally responsible. But cases like Allen’s expose a striking rift between the White House allies who supported the law and the Justice Department officials now working to limit the number of inmates who might benefit from it.“DOJ is pushing against the will of the people, the will of Congress, the will of the president,” said Holly Harris, a conservative activist and leader of the Justice Action Network who worked with Congress and the White House to pass the law.Harris noted that, before the law’s passage, then-Attorney General Jeff Sessions was a vocal critic of reducing prison sentences. His successor, William P. Barr, expressed similar reservations before his appointment.The First Step Act aims to lessen long-standing disparities in punishment for nonviolent drug offenses involving crack cocaine. Having five grams of crack, a form of cocaine that is more common among black drug users, used to carry the same mandatory minimum sentence as having 500 grams of powder cocaine, which is more common among white drug users. But federal prosecutors are arguing in hundreds of cases that inmates who have applied for this type of relief are ineligible, according to a review of court records and interviews with defense attorneys. In at least half a dozen cases, prosecutors are seeking to reincarcerate offenders who have been released under the First Step Act.The department has told federal prosecutors that when determining whether to challenge an application for early release, they should consider not the amount of crack an inmate was convicted of having or trafficking — but rather the amount that court records suggest they may have actually had, which is often much larger.A Justice spokesman, Wyn Hornbuckle, defended that interpretation, though he declined to discuss the department’s guidance to prosecutors or to say when it was disseminated. He did not respond to questions about the split between the department and the White House allies who pushed for the law.Hornbuckle said that in years past, prosecutors could secure lengthy prison sentences without having to prove an offender had large amounts of drugs. Under today’s laws, he said, those same offenders would probably be charged with crimes involving larger quantities.“The government’s position is that the text of the statute requires courts to look at the quantity of crack that was part of the actual crime,” Hornbuckle said. “This is a fairness issue.”In the vast majority of cases reviewed by The Washington Post, judges have disagreed with the Justice Department’s interpretation.Some of the people involved in writing the legislation also disagree, including Brett Tolman, a former U.S. attorney in Utah. He and other supporters of the law note that the text of the legislation does not explicitly instruct courts to consider the actual amount of crack an offender allegedly had.“This is not a faithful implementation of this part of the First Step Act,” said Tolman, who was appointed by President George W. Bush. “At some point, they figured out a way to come back and argue that it wouldn’t apply to as many people.”Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, accused the Justice Department at a congressional hearing last month of “trying to sabotage” the law by interpreting it in this way. Sen. Mike Lee of Utah, a key Republican sponsor of the law, declined to comment on the department’s stance on inmate eligibility but told The Post he had concerns about how other aspects of the law are being implemented.“It would be a shame if the people working under the President failed to implement the bill as written,” Lee said in a recent statement to The Post.In January, Barr told Congress he would enact the law in ways that “are consistent with congressional intent,” and Hornbuckle said in a statement that the “timely and effective implementation of the First Step Act is a priority.”But current and former White House officials said Barr, who was sworn in Feb. 14, has expressed concerns that it would drive up crime numbers and that the administration would be blamed. He also told White House officials he’d heard from many critics of the law, the officials said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal policy deliberations.Hornbuckle declined to comment on those accounts.“The people that did the deal, including President Trump, wanted to help guys like me,” said Allen, 49, whose case was mentioned in a Reuters story in July about efforts by some prosecutors to clamp down on First Step Act relief. “But on the flip side, you have federal prosecutors who wake up every day trying to keep guys like me locked up.”In February, two months before the White House ceremony, U.S. District Judge Richard Lazzara in Tampa rejected the Justice Department’s argument that Allen should remain in prison, concluding that it was contrary to the spirit of the law. “Congress says what it means and means what it says, and I don’t have any authority to fiddle with what they’ve said,” Lazzara said before ordering Allen’s release, according to a court transcript. Prosecutors told Lazzara they would appeal. When they noted that some judges had interpreted the law differently, Lazzara said, “I’ll bet you Congress didn’t really think through what was going to happen.” Indeed, at least five federal judges across the country have sided with the Justice Department in rejecting applications for early release. Others have said they will not rule on the applications until appellate courts decide how they should be handled.The effect has been to paralyze the flow of First Step Act releases in some areas, leaving hundreds of petitioners — the vast majority of whom are black — in federal prison, defense attorneys say. Among the stalled cases is that of Deonte Sweeney, a former construction worker serving a ­22-year sentence for trafficking more than 5 grams of crack cocaine. Prosecutors have opposed Sweeney’s application for early release, alleging that he had 84 grams of crack. The judge said he would not rule until he had guidance from appellate courts.“I put my life in the jury’s hands,” Sweeney, 41, said in a telephone interview from a federal prison in Pennsylvania. “So whatever amount the jury chose, that’s what I should be held accountable for.” White House officials declined to comment — even as Trump continues to claim credit for the bill. Just last month, the president appeared onstage in South Carolina with Tanesha Bannister, a 45-year-old woman freed under the First Step Act. “I want to thank the president for giving me another lease on life,” Bannister told the crowd. “When is she running for office, please? I want to back her,” Trump said after Bannister was finished speaking. “We have to back her, right?”Unmentioned was that Justice Department prosecutors had opposed Bannister’s release. The First Step Act was championed by a bipartisan coalition that spanned the political spectrum, from the conservative Koch network toracial-justice activist Van Jones. The legislation forbids federal jailers from shackling pregnant inmates and grants judges new powers to free sick and elderly prisoners.One of the most consequential parts of the law was the provision allowing federal inmates such as Allen to apply for early release. The mandatory sentencing policies those offenders faced are among the factors that have led the United States to incarcerate more people than any other nation, experts say.Efforts to pass similar legislation during the Obama administration failed to gain traction with congressional Republicans and were not taken up by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.). But after Trump’s election in 2016, advocates believed they had another shot. Their hope was rooted in the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, who had expressed support for criminal justice reform and whose father spent 14 months in federal prison for crimes including tax evasion and witness tampering. A version of the legislation made it through the House in May 2018, but the chances of a bill gaining enough Republican support in the Senate seemed a long shot — especially because Sessions opposed it.“There are still those who would have you believe we should release the criminals early, shorten sentences for serious federal traffickers, and go soft on crime,” Sessions said in a speech last year. “That would be bad for the rule of law, it would be bad for public safety, and it would be bad for the communities across America.”Advocates who lobbied on behalf of the bill said they believed that Sessions’s opposition ­trickled down to other members of the Justice Department, some of whom encouraged Republican senators to oppose the legislation.“I have no question about it that, behind the scenes, there were certain people at DOJ who seemed like they were trying to actively hurt the legislation,” said Jason Pye, vice president of legislative affairs for the conservative group FreedomWorks. “The tough-on-crime mentality that existed in the 1980s and ’90s is still present with some members of Congress and is still very much present inside the DOJ.”But Kushner raised the issue with his father-in-law so often that the president grew annoyed with him, according to current and former administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss private conversations. Trump was more interested in talking about tariffs and immigration, one official said.Kim Kardashian and Kanye West introduced the president to the case of Alice Johnson, a grandmother who had received a life sentence for trafficking crack cocaine. Trump has said he was deeply affected by her story. The celebrity couple convinced him to grant her clemency in June. White House aides say Trump was also swayed by lobbying from several Republican governors who had enacted similar sentencing changes in their states.McConnell was unwilling to act without hearing from Trump directly. He did not trust others to speak for the president, aides said.Early in December 2018, Trump called McConnell directly and asked him to give the legislation a vote in the Senate, the aides said. Trump told him that, with White House backing, McConnell’s fellow Republicans would fall in line.“Once his heart was in it, he was all in,” said Ja’Ron Smith, a special assistant to Trump who helped shepherd the legislation. “It wasn’t easy to get consensus, but the president was really pushing for this.”McConnell called a vote on Dec. 18. The legislation passed overwhelmingly, with 87 senators in favor and just 12 against. Three days later, Trump signed it.Trump has made criminal justice reform a chief talking point in recent months, and several of his advisers — including Kushner — believe it could play an important role in his reelection bid, said Doug Deason, a prominent donor to the Trump campaign. A senior campaign official added that the Trump campaign plans to tout the First Step Act in the hopes of attracting black voters in key states such as North Carolina and Florida.The legislation has earned Trump goodwill from unlikely corners, something he craves amid an impeachment inquiry. Last week, he beamed onstage in Columbia, S.C., as he was presented with an award from a bipartisan advocacy group of black elected officials.“I told him, ‘You ought to go and get that award,’” Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) said in an interview. “There ain’t many people giving you an award these days.”Backstage, Trump talked up the idea of another such law, asking Steve Benjamin, the city’s mayor, whether he should call it the Second Step Act, the mayor recalled.Yet even as Trump toasts himself for the legislative victory, defense attorneys and advocates are frustrated that the White House is not doing more to ensure that the law is implemented as intended.“The irony of this administration working against itself is mind-boggling,” said Brittany Barnett, a defense attorney who has worked on several of the First Step Act cases championed by Kardashian. “Especially with lives on the line.”In the weeks after the bill became law, many federal prosecutors allowed inmate petitions for early release to go unchallenged. Then, at the direction of officials in Washington, prosecutors began to reverse course, court records show.In March, Assistant U.S. Attorney Jennifer Bockhorst asked federal judges in West Virginia to place a hold on more than two dozen applications for relief — some of which she had not previously opposed. She wrote that she expected to oppose at least some of those applications based on new guidance from the Justice Department.In a brief phone interview, Bockhorst said the government shutdown that began soon after the bill passed and lasted until late January delayed the guidance from Washington. “We didn’t have the benefit of any kind of coordinated position,” she said.Similar reversals took place in New York, where prosecutors agreed in April that certain inmates were eligible — only to change their position in May. In one case, a judge found the reversal striking enough to ask what prompted it.“I was prepared for that question, your honor,” responded Assistant U.S. Attorney Laurie Koren­baum, according to a transcript of the hearing. “It is DOJ policy.”She declined to comment for this story.Some U.S. attorneys had opposed early releases from the beginning, including the prosecutors in Florida who reviewed Allen’s application. They argued that although Allen pleaded guilty to a crime involving 50 grams or more of crack, evidence suggested he actually had more than 500 grams.Lazzara was not persuaded, and on Feb. 19, he ordered that Allen be freed. Later that day, he was.The following month, Allen got a call inviting him to the White House. Neither the advocates who organized the April 1 event nor White House staff were aware that federal prosecutors had already notified the court that they would seek to reincarcerate him, organizers said.The U.S. attorney’s office in Florida referred requests for comment to the Justice Department, which declined to discuss Allen’s case. Allen’s defense attorneys declined to comment.One federal public defender in Florida, speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid imperiling other cases, said prosecutors eventually came to realize that they were appealing the release of a man Trump had hugged on television.Two weeks after local newscasts led the evening news with images of Allen smiling and embracing the president, the former inmate got another phone call: The government was dropping its appeal.Allen never received a formal explanation of why prosecutors changed course. But he gave The Post his theory: “Once they saw they gave me a presidential invite, they had to rethink things.”Fresh takes on what we eat and why it matters (plus recipes)Brighten winter meals with this crisp, juicy chicory and citrus saladSign in or create a free account to save your preferences


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 3

Headline: How The Washington Post reports election race calls
Publish Date: Monday, November 07, 2022 at 10:00 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/11/07/washington-post-race-calls-midterms-2022/?itid=ms_4 
Description: This year, for instance, because there are so many competitive races for House and Senate, we might not know which party controls either chamber of Congress on Election Night. That answer could take some time.

Content: The Washington Post doesn’t call races on its own. It relies heavily on two nonpartisan organizations with long track records of examining raw vote totals and calling elections: the Associated Press and Edison Research, the latter of which provides vote count data for a group of TV news networks. Although The Post also looks to its independent election model to provide information about how the vote is trending as results are being tallied, it does not rely on the model to make race calls. It’s important to remember the official winner of any electoral contest is not determined until the state government certifies the vote — in many cases weeks after the election itself.

Why is it so difficult for winners to be officially declared on election night? The answer is the United States doesn’t hold a single election for Congress, statehouses and state legislatures — instead, it more accurately conducts thousands of contests in scores of states and counties by local officials in disparate ways. This highly decentralized system is one of the reasons experts say election fraud is so rare — but it also makes it more difficult to reliably predict the results shortly after the polls close.

The Post is seeking to be as transparent as possible about what goes on behind the scenes in our newsroom on election night. Our top priority is reporting accurate information to our readers, and that might mean we publish race calls more slowly to give our journalists more time to consider whether we have enough data. For a handful of the most competitive races (more on which ones below), we will spend more time analyzing the data from AP and Edison in deciding when we’re ready to publish them.

The Post relies on two organizations for vote data: the AP and Edison Research. Our results pages depend on constantly updated tallies from the AP, which has multiple ways of collecting information: reporters who visit and/or call counties or clerks’ offices, maintaining good communication lines with them, and who check county websites or other programmatic feeds. Edison runs its own vote counting system, providing data to the National Election Pool (NEP) consortium of ABC, CBS, CNN and CBS as well as other subscribers.

Its standard for race calls is “certainty,” Scott said, meaning the AP will only call races when it doesn’t see any possibility the leading candidate can lose. The AP seeks to ensure it knows the location of all outstanding votes in a state or county to confirm there isn’t anywhere a trailing candidate might outperform or a trend can be reversed.

Sometimes, the AP calls a race right after the polls have closed. That usually happens in less competitive races, in instances when the trend lines match well with previous elections and mirror the AP VoteCast poll. At other times, a call comes in shortly after polls close, such as when the contest’s expected winner is leading by an overwhelming margin in vote tallies or VoteCast polling. Slower race calls are expected in more competitive races.

This means that in states like Florida, Georgia and North Carolina, which allow early processing of mail-in ballots, the first release of vote totals will probably be from mail-in ballots arriving before Election Day and early in-person votes. The next ballots to be counted are often Election Day votes, followed by absentee ballots that arrived on (or in some states a few days after) Election Day.

We are, however, using a more rigorous process for the most competitive races: roughly 13 Senate contests, 60 House races, six gubernatorial contests, three secretary of state races and two elections in Maryland and the District of Columbia, for comptroller and Council-at-Large, respectively. We are relying on the ratings from the Cook Political Report and pre-election polls to categorize the competitiveness of individual contests.

For the 12 most competitive Senate races, The Post will await a call from either the AP or Edison. Once one organization makes a call, we will review information from both groups about the race, as well as consult our own model data and results maps to see if we’re ready to report the call. We’re dedicating more time to analyzing competitive Senate races because there are fewer of them, and because of each race’s importance in deciding control of the chamber.

Our election model, which you’ll see across our website on Election Day, estimates the number of outstanding votes in any given race and which candidate or party is most likely to benefit from them. It aims to provide a fuller picture of the results after all the votes are counted instead of a sometimes misleading image of results earlier in the night.

If everything goes well on election night, you’ll also see insights based on our model included in our live coverage and on The Post’s live show. Those insights are based on comparing what the model tells us about how Americans are likely to vote with demographic information from the U. S. Census and records states keep about their voters.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 4

Headline: Top 10 Democratic 2024 presidential candidates (besides Biden), ranked
Publish Date: Tuesday, April 25, 2023 at 07:43 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2023/04/25/top-10-democrats-president-rankings-biden/ 
Description: National Democrats appear much more content with Biden than the base is. So what happens if that changes?

Content: President Biden’s newly announced reelection bid is without comparison in modern American political history. Never have we seen so few members of a president’s party wanting him to seek reelection. At the same time, this is an incumbent president whom nobody wants to be seen undercutting — especially as a perhaps-likely rematch with the man Biden already beat in 2020, Donald Trump, looms.

Democrats, long caricatured as aimless infighters, are suddenly, seemingly the party that falls in line for the purported good of the party’s electoral hopes (in stark contrast with Republicans). It’s evident that a capable alternative to Biden could step forward and have a good shot at nabbing the nomination against a guy most Democrats aren’t clamoring to renominate. But nobody seems to want to be the first to leap. And the name of the game for now seems to be seeing how Biden’s campaign goes and how the 80-year old is able to handle himself amid the age questions, and going from there.

What if Biden struggles and is looking like a general election liability? For now, Democrats appear willing to vote for him, with 88 percent saying they would definitely or probably vote for him in the general election, but just 22 percent of independents say the same. And what if Biden ultimately doesn’t finish the campaign, for whatever reason?

So if Biden does falter, who could step in? We’ve been ranking the top 10 potential Democratic nominees including Biden for a while — the assumption being that a contested primary was possible. Below, we’re adjusting that slightly to look at who would be the most formidable in case the party decides it’s best to turn the page.

There are no easy answers or obvious alternatives here, which appears to be part of the reason Democrats have settled on Biden so far. (A recent poll asked people to name a candidate they favored if Biden didn’t run, and half didn’t even offer one.) But that could change. It’s also possible people were keeping their powder dry and hoping not to alienate Biden’s team by leaning in to a run, but that calculus could change now that he’s in, too.

They’re both governors of blue states (Illinois and New Jersey). They’re both in their second terms. They’re both wealthy. And they’ve both made it quite clear that they are interested in running for president at some point. Whether they fit the profile of what Democratic voters are actually looking for is another matter. But if we had to pick which one made more sense, we’d probably go with Pritzker. That’s in part because his personal wealth — estimated at $3.6 billion — might be attractive for and helpful in an abbreviated campaign.

The Georgia senator hasn’t gotten much buzz, but we have to think that would change in a hurry if Biden falters. Warnock won consecutive Senate campaigns in a prime swing state in 2020 and 2022. A pair of runoffs in those races means he’s run something amounting to four general election campaigns in that time period, and you have to think he would want a break. But next to Sen. Mark Kelly (D-Ariz.), perhaps no Democratic senator’s stock is higher right now.

The Vermont senator reiterated Tuesday that he would not challenge Biden in a primary and will seek to rally progressives behind Biden’s candidacy. As for a race without Biden, he is often up there with Vice President Harris and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg in the polls. He would also start such a race with a base unlike anyone else on this list. But you have to wonder if the answer to a party that might view an 80-year-old as being too old is an 81-year-old who has already run and lost twice.

The Minnesota senator is among those seen as quietly doing the things one would do to remain a part of the conversation in a post-Biden race. She makes sense as a stand-in for Biden and his more pragmatic brand of politics, but she might have competition for that lane with some governors on this list.

Arguably more than anyone on this list, this would be a break-glass-in-case-of-emergency situation. The Pennsylvania governor is just months into his job after winning by double digits against a flawed opponent in a swing state. He makes more sense as a 2028 prospect. But if we’re talking mostly about a situation in which the party is suddenly looking for the best and most electable alternative, plenty will home in on him.

The California governor, despite his protestations, is widely viewed as being among the most likely candidates to run if Biden falters. He’s gone to great lengths to build his national profile in recent months, while pushing his party toward a more in-your-face approach to taking on Republicans. It’s easy to see how that message might play well.

The 2022 election results seem to have faded as a consideration on the Republican side, with voters increasingly moving toward Trump and his bad electoral record — and away from 19-point-victor-in-a-former-swing-state Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis. But Democrats have shown they’re more interested in pragmatism, including by nominating Biden in 2020. And it’s hard to see them doing worse than the well-regarded and liked female governor of a swing state (Michigan) who has won two campaigns there by about 10 points. Whitmer has said she wouldn’t run even in a Biden-less race, but arguably even more so than with Shapiro or Colorado Gov. Jared Polis, it’s not difficult to see a huge recruiting effort emerging. Plenty will believe she is the answer.

The Colorado governor makes sense for many of the same reasons as Shapiro and Whitmer; he won reelection in November by nearly 20 points in a blue former swing state and is well-liked in the party. (For a rundown of how Polis might fit into a presidential campaign, see this from George Will.) But he’s left the door a little more ajar to running one day.

Biden’s announcement seems to erase any doubts that Harris will be his running mate again in 2024. There have been questions about how voters might feel about that, given that her ascension to the top job is a more real prospect with Biden in his 80s, and she’s generally less popular than both Biden and recent vice presidents. Polls suggest she’s the nominal front-runner in a Biden-less race, but without anything approaching a convincing margin.

The transportation secretary is seemingly aiming higher — whether that’s in 2024 or 2028 — after passing on running for an open Senate seat in his adoptive home state of Michigan. While he finished fifth in pledged delegates in 2020, it’s worth recalling that he just about won both of the first two states, Iowa and New Hampshire. He quickly faltered when the contests moved to more diverse electorates in Nevada and South Carolina, and his lack of appeal to minority voters is a major obstacle that must be dealt with. But he’s also the most established and capable national messenger on this list. And perhaps more people would give him a look now that he’s no longer just a 30-something mayor of a medium-size city.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 5

Headline: Democrats meet with anti-Trump conservatives to fight No Labels 2024 bid
Publish Date: Wednesday, June 14, 2023 at 09:00 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2023/06/14/biden-no-labels-opposition/?itid=lk_inline_manual_31 
Description: Biden allies seek to undermine an effort they see as a threat to the president’s reelection.

Content: The broad show of force at the off-the-record gathering — with about 40 people in the room and others appearing on Zoom on the anniversary of D-Day — was just the latest sign of a growing concern in some political circles about the No Labels effort to get ballot access to challenge the major-party candidates next year.

Attendees included former White House chief of staff Ron Klain, Democratic National Committee senior adviser Cedric L. Richmond and Stephanie Cutter, a former campaign adviser to Barack Obama who has worked with the Biden team. They were joined by former senators Doug Jones (D-Ala.), Heidi Heitkamp (D-N. D.) and Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), along with representatives of the anti-Trump Lincoln Project, former Weekly Standard publisher Bill Kristol and Lucy Caldwell, a former Republican consultant who now advises the independent Forward Party, according to people present at the event, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the event was private.

“I see a group, under a catchy slogan that is misleading at best, saying that they have the country’s best interest at heart when the exercise will do nothing but elect Donald Trump,” said Richmond, who like Klain and Caldwell told The Washington Post that they attended in their personal capacities. “I am encouraged that a lot of people share the concern that this effort is dangerous.”

No Labels, a nonprofit group that does not disclose its donors, has been working to qualify a new party of the same name for state ballots in 2024 that could be used by an independent bipartisan presidential ticket in case the major parties nominate “unacceptable” candidates. The group’s leaders have said they view Trump as unacceptable, while telling others that they would not move forward if Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis wins the GOP nomination.

The Arizona Democratic Party has sued to kick No Labels off the ballot in that state, alleging that its application was deficient. Maine Secretary of State Shenna Bellows (D) recently sent letters to more than 6,000 people who had enrolled in the No Labels party in her state, notifying them of concerns that they may have been tricked into signing what they thought was a petition when in fact they were changing their party registration.

No Labels fired back at Bellows on Tuesday with a letter asking for the evidence that prompted her to target the voters individually who had signed documents. A No Labels attorney from Marcus Clegg, a firm based in Portland, Maine, alleged that Bellows’s actions potentially “had a chilling effect” on voters. In a clear suggestion of potential litigation, the letter cited Supreme Court precedent that says it is illegal to discriminate against “new or small political parties.”

“Ensuring that Maine voters have the information they need to exercise their First Amendment rights to associate with the party of their choice (or no party) is my main concern,” Bellows said. “The response we’ve seen from voters who received our letter has been overwhelmingly that of gratitude for the information provided.”

Benjamin Chavis Jr., a former executive director of the NAACP who now works with No Labels, said the people working to stop the group misunderstand its intentions and are undermining the electoral process. No Labels leaders have said they will decide in 2024 whether to move forward with a presidential campaign based on whether there is a clear path to victory with named candidates.

“I’ve spent my entire life in the Democratic Party, championing civil and voting rights and I’ve always believed our democracy is stronger when there are more voices and choices in our political process. That’s why I was so disturbed to hear that a group of my friends and leaders in the Democratic Party recently convened to try to undermine No Labels’ 2024 presidential insurance project,” Chavis said in a statement. “No Labels will not spoil this election for Trump. What we will do is continue working resolutely to give millions of Americans a choice they so clearly want.”

People who attended the June 6 meeting described presentations from recent polling and focus groups that suggested a No Labels campaign would draw more support from Biden than Trump in a hypothetical three-way matchup. They said attendees discussed efforts to put pressure on No Labels donors and to educate potential No Labels presidential candidates about the dangers of the effort resulting in Trump’s election.

They also spoke about raising more money to counter the effort and increasing outreach to members of Congress who are affiliated with the bipartisan Problem Solvers Caucus, which was founded with the help of No Labels, attendees said.

Among those present or connected by Zoom was Obama 2012 campaign manager Jim Messina, former Howard Dean 2004 campaign manager Joe Trippi, Democratic strategist Antjuan Seawright, Investing in U. S. co-founder Dmitri Mehlhorn and Lincoln Project co-founder Reed Galen, who previously worked as a Republican strategist, according to people present. Hilltop Public Solutions partner Patrick Dillon, a former Obama White House deputy political director who is married to White House deputy chief of staff Jen O’Malley Dillon, also attended, the people said.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 6

Headline: Trump mug shot released after booking in Fulton County Jail
Publish Date: Friday, August 25, 2023 at 12:57 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2023/08/24/donald-trump-mugshot-georgia/?itid=lk_inline_manual_5 
Description: For the first time in four indictments, law enforcement took a mug shot of Donald Trump as he was being booked Thursday at the Fulton County Jail in Georgia.

Content: Trump had arrived at the Fulton County Jail around 7:30 p.m. Thursday, hours before the Friday deadline to voluntarily surrender that had been set by Fulton County District Attorney Fani T. Willis (D). Since early Thursday morning, a few dozen Trump supporters had been milling about outside the jail, waving pro-Trump flags and signs, just outside an entrance where officers had placed several metal barricades.

Security was tight: Fulton County Sheriff Patrick Labat had announced this week there would be a “hard lockdown” around the jail during Trump’s surrender, and the airspace above the jail was closed for more than two hours Thursday while the former president was being booked.

While he was inside the jail, away from cameras, Trump went through the same process as any other person would when surrendering:  being fingerprinted and having his mug shot taken. Afterward, his booking photo was publicly released, just as any mug shots for criminal defendants in the state would be, when requested.

The prospect of a former president’s booking photo leading newscasts was unprecedented. After each of Trump’s three previous indictments, authorities had not taken or released a mug shot, in part to avoid a spectacle and also because they acknowledged that there was little need for formal photo identification of the former president.

After a New York grand jury indicted Trump in April, in a case stemming from alleged hush money payments to former adult-film actress Stormy Daniels, Trump’s campaign began selling T-shirts with a fake mug shot for $47, emblazoned with the words “NOT GUILTY.” The pretend mug shot showed Trump’s height on the lineup as 6-foot-5, two inches taller than Trump is in real life.

Even before Trump was arraigned, a former Trump White House spokesman declared that the booking photo would be the “most manly, most masculine, most handsome mug shot of all time.” However, Trump did not ultimately have a mug shot taken when he was arraigned in Manhattan.

In June, when Trump appeared in a federal courthouse in Miami to be arraigned on charges of mishandling classified documents, Trump was once again fingerprinted but did not get a mug shot. Alina Habba, an attorney and spokeswoman for Trump, said at the time that Trump “obviously” didn’t need to have a mug shot taken because he was not a flight risk and was the leading candidate for the Republican presidential nomination.

When Trump appeared in a federal courthouse earlier this month in Washington to plead not guilty to charges that he plotted to overturn the 2020 election, Trump was again spared a mug shot, though he was fingerprinted for the third time.

But Fulton County officials had maintained that Trump, along with the 18 other defendants indicted in the case under Georgia state laws, would be treated just as any others would during their bookings — including being processed at “Rice Street,” a nickname for the notoriously dilapidated Fulton County Jail. Leading up to Thursday, gamblers were placing bets on various aspects of the anticipated mug shot, from what Trump would wear to whether he would smile.

In Georgia, Trump was required to post a $200,000 bond, also a first among the four indictments, and released under strict conditions: He is not allowed to communicate with witnesses or co-defendants about the case, except through his lawyers, and he is barred from intimidating witnesses or co-defendants. He is also forbidden from making any “direct or indirect threat of any nature against the community or to any property in the community,” including in “posts on social media or reposts of posts” by others on social media.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 7

Headline: The top 10 Republican presidential candidates for 2024, ranked
Publish Date: Sunday, September 03, 2023 at 01:24 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2023/09/03/republican-presidential-rankings-2024/ 
Description: This month’s biggest gainer: former South Carolina governor and United Nations ambassador Nikki Haley.

Content: The former Arkansas governor made some news at the Aug. 23 debate, going as far as to suggest that Trump might be disqualified from office under the 14th Amendment (for his alleged role in the Jan. 6, 2021, insurrection). But a lot of good it did him: A post-debate poll from The Washington Post, FiveThirtyEight and Ipsos showed Hutchinson as the only candidate to see no increase in the percentage of debate watchers considering voting for him. Before and after the debate, just 9 percent said they would consider him, the lowest percentage for any candidate onstage. And among those debate watchers, his unfavorable rating rose more (by 24 points) than his favorable rating did (by 17 points). (Previous ranking: 10)

The North Dakota governor saw slightly better returns — going from 5 percent considering him to 12 percent — but not in a way that suggests he’ll be a force. And to top things off, he’s now got to balance his campaign schedule with a serious leg injury that requires rehab. (Previous ranking: 9)

The former New Jersey governor remains the candidate most disliked by GOP primary voters, with around 6 in 10 having an unfavorable opinion. He’s now significantly more popular among Democrats, despite the fact that they don’t particularly like him either. There was plenty of anticipation that he would lay out the case against Trump at the debate, but Trump’s absence seemed to undercut that exercise. Christie tried to make the case against Trump, but it just didn’t land well, and he spent much of the debate jousting with business executive Vivek Ramaswamy instead. Christie’s path to victory remains a mirage, but he places here because he captured the fancy of GOP voters at least at one point — albeit a decade ago. (Previous ranking: 7)

A new poll last week cast doubt on the Virginia governor’s status as the party’s Trump alternative in waiting. The Roanoke College poll showed him at 9 percent in Virginia’s primary if he were to jump in the race, compared with Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis’s 13 percent and Trump’s 47 percent. It’s possible to oversell that data point; home states don’t always love the idea of their politicians running for president. He’s not actually running yet. And the same poll suggested that Youngkin could indeed be the kind of broadly agreeable candidate who would do well in a general election: Even 32 percent of Virginia Democrats approved of his job performance. (Previous ranking: 5)

Nobody stood out in the debate like Ramaswamy — for the good and for the bad. While the entrepreneur is clearly building a base of support and places third among Republican primary voters nationally, he’s also developing significant baggage thanks to his propensity for trying to make news. (See: the 9/11 and Israel stuff.) This still feels like a case of a guy bidding for something besides victory in 2024, whether that’s another campaign, a Cabinet job or something to be determined. (Previous ranking: 8)

The former vice president avoided a major embarrassment by meeting the donor requirements to make the debate stage. And he was a focal point, by virtue of the discussion of his Jan. 6 actions. He actually got the most speaking time. But he’s in much the position he was in before, without a solid base and with precious few Republicans considering him (23 percent of debate watchers) despite his past status as Trump’s second-in-command. (Previous ranking: 6)

The senator from South Carolina, too, remains largely what he was before: the broadly acceptable candidate who appears to be waiting for a bump that just hasn’t come. While previously showing some momentum in Iowa, recent polls indicate he might be dropping out of the top three there. Perhaps the bump will come, but being behind Pence and Christie and at 3 percent nationally probably isn’t where he needs to be right now — particularly given that DeSantis’s slippage has left many voters up for grabs. (Previous ranking: 3)

In retrospect, the former South Carolina governor was the most pronounced winner of the debate (to the extent there was one onstage). Fully 15 percent of debate watchers said she won it, a share that was the biggest relative to her current standing in the race. More than one-third who said she won hadn’t previously considered voting for her — more than for DeSantis and Ramaswamy. That suggests she expanded her potential base of support the most, and a national Wall Street Journal poll this weekend seemed to confirm that: Haley jumped into third place, at 8 percent. The post-debate polling suggests Haley mostly won over Trump skeptics in the party, but without necessarily alienating Trump loyalists the way Hutchinson, Christie and Pence have. The trick will be continuing that highly difficult balancing act at which so many others have failed. (Previous ranking: 4)

The Florida governor continues to suffer the kinds of stories that often get written about a truly struggling campaign effort. The latest involves leaked audio of a seemingly desperate plea for $50 million from the chief strategist for his super PAC. “I’ve already lost once to Trump, and we can’t do it again,” said the strategist, Jeff Roe, who ran the campaign of Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) in 2016. DeSantis remains in second place in the national polls at about 15 percent, virtually unchanged from a month ago. But it’s a far cry from when he was near neck-and-neck with Trump in February. What DeSantis really needs right now is a bounce-back to make this look like an actual race again. (Previous ranking: 2)

The former president remains north of 50 percent in the national polling average, which is more or less where he has been since his indictments started landing in late March. The Journal poll pegged him at 59 percent. The big news last week was that he is scheduled to go on trial over his federal election-related charges March 4, the day before Super Tuesday. Trump, of course, cried election interference. But even setting aside the baselessness of that allegation, that date might actually serve his purposes. As we wrote last week, he might well have the race sewn up before we ever get to the meat of that trial. (Previous ranking: 1)


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 8

Headline: Republicans still struggle to find a winning strategy on abortion
Publish Date: Sunday, November 12, 2023 at 11:00 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2023/11/12/republicans-abortion-election-defeats/?itid=lk_inline_manual_5 
Description: Many say the problem is messaging or strategy, while Democrats and some Republicans say the GOP is stubbornly sticking with deeply unpopular policies.

Content: In interviews and public statements, Republicans were all over the map on how to address the abortion issue heading into 2024. Republican National Committee Chair Ronna McDaniel told NBC News last week that Republicans should campaign more aggressively on the issue, calling for a “consensus as a country” that abortion should be banned with exceptions after “around 15 weeks.” Susan B. Anthony Pro-Life America released a memo suggesting that the GOP needs to “define where it stands on the issue nationally,” “put real advertising dollars behind it” and paint Democrats as extreme. Others have argued that Republicans need to emphasize support for exceptions, demonstrate more sensitivity when talking about abortion and use phrases such as “limitations” and “late-term” abortions as opposed to bans.

“The people aren’t with us,” said Sen. Kevin Cramer (R-N. D.), whose state has a near-total abortion ban. “We don’t win the debate very well publicly because we’ve sort of boiled it down to pro-life or pro-choice, as opposed to the nuance of it. … How you talk about it matters. We do have to learn how to talk about that.”

Many Republicans and antiabortion advocates say the problem is simply one of messaging that can be fixed with more moderate language, or the result of tactical errors that can be fixed with a better strategy. But Democrats — and some Republicans — say the GOP has simply backed abortion policies that are deeply unpopular with the public and tough to sell, no matter the messaging.

The June 2022 ruling in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization, which overturned Roe, marked a sweeping victory for antiabortion advocates that was nearly 50 years in the making. Yet it also sent shock waves throughout the party — dividing the GOP on where the antiabortion movement should go next, with some arguing for a national six- or 15-week ban and others saying the decision should be left to the states. Nowhere are those divisions more evident than in the GOP presidential primary, where the positions range from South Carolina Sen. Tim Scott’s embrace of a national 15-week ban to former president Donald Trump calling a six-week abortion ban in Florida a “terrible mistake” and pushing for a negotiation.

“It has always been the case that progressive issues have typically over-performed candidates that support those policy positions,” Sweet said. “If this was a Democratic candidate, the results would look very different. But it’s not. It’s an issue and that allows us as people who work on these campaigns to really talk to voters across the political spectrum and find shared values that transcend partisanship.”

In Virginia, a group of GOP legislators on Sunday unsuccessfully sought to remove House Speaker Todd Gilbert, arguing he did not push back enough against Gov. Glenn Youngkin and his allies’ promotion of his 15-week abortion ban in television ads. “We literally ran on one of the third rails of politics,” one of the delegates told The Post, saying he raised questions about the strategy to Gilbert months ago.

Wednesday’s GOP presidential debate further highlighted the lack of cohesion within the party for how to move forward on abortion. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, who signed a six-week abortion ban in his state, acknowledged the setbacks Republicans have faced on ballot initiatives, saying, “You’ve got to do a better job on these referenda, I think of all the stuff that’s happened to the pro-life cause they have been caught flat-footed on these referenda.” Meanwhile, former U. N. ambassador Nikki Haley reiterated her call to find “consensus,” noting that there are not enough votes in the Senate to ban abortion nationally.

“Nikki Haley, I believe, has the right view on this, at this point understanding how the political landscape has changed on this,” said Alice Stewart, who has worked on several GOP presidential campaigns. “Ever since Roe v. Wade was overturned, every time abortion was a single issue on a ballot, the pro-life community lost. We can continue to fight the same battle and continue to lose or we can reframe the battle and win, and the way we do that is by having responsible conversations about meaningful abortion limits.”

Steven Law, chief executive of the Senate Leadership Fund, the super PAC aligned with Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), presented those findings at a September Susan B. Anthony List donor event, according to a person familiar with the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal strategy. The National Republican Senatorial Committee is also encouraging Republicans to convey a similar message, emphasizing support for “reasonable limits on late-term abortions” and the backing of exceptions for rape, incest and life of the mother, according to another person familiar with the strategy.

“That’s what we always tell people: You can have your voices heard at the ballot box, and I think they are,” she said. “The drastic change that the decision precipitated has caused, for women, a feeling of loss of control, whether you’re pro-life or pro-choice. So I think that’s what you’re seeing.  … I think right now the states are making the decisions and we ought to see how this all settles out.”


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 9

Headline: Trump attempts to spin anti-democracy, authoritarian criticism against Biden
Publish Date: Sunday, December 03, 2023 at 12:23 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2023/12/02/trump-speech-authoritarian-criticism-biden/?itid=lk_inline_manual_10 
Description: Former president Trump sought to turn the tables on rising alarms from Democrats and some Republicans that Trump’s return to power would imperil free elections and civil liberties.

Content: His speech on Saturday was an effort to turn the tables on rising alarms from Democrats and some Republicans that Trump’s return to power would imperil free elections and civil liberties. As candidates ramp up appearances in Iowa ahead of the caucuses on Jan. 15, the former president, who refused to accept his 2020 election loss and inspired his supporters to disrupt the peaceful transfer of power, responded by comparing President Biden to a fascist tyrant, and the campaign distributed signs reading ‘BIDEN ATTACKS DEMOCRACY.’

“Biden and his radical left allies like to pose as defenders of democracy,” Trump told a raucous crowd of a couple thousand supporters here. “But Joe Biden is not the defender of American democracy. Joe Biden is the destroyer of American democracy. … This campaign is a righteous crusade to liberate our republic from Biden and the criminals and the Biden administration.”

The speech showed that Biden’s framing of the 2024 election as democracy versus authoritarianism is resonating with voters, according to Jennifer Mercieca, a historian of American political rhetoric at Texas A&M University. Trump’s strategy to “accuse the accuser” could confuse voters about the real threat and help reassure his own supporters, she said.

“Trump’s Iowa speech continues his use of fascist rhetoric: it’s us versus them, he tells his supporters, and ‘they’ are enemies who cheat,” she said. “Authoritarians have a lot of rhetorical tricks for explaining away anti-democratic actions as actually ‘democratic.’”

The Biden campaign called the speech an attempt to distract from Trump’s own promises to punish his political opponents, and a renewed push in recent weeks to repeal the 2010 health care law commonly known as Obamacare.

“Donald Trump’s America in 2025 is one where the government is his personal weapon to lock up his political enemies,” campaign spokesman Ammar Moussa said. “After spending a week defending his plan to rip health care away from millions of Americans, this is his latest desperate attempt at distraction — the American people see right through it and it won’t work.”

The speech marked a striking rhetorical escalation of themes that Trump has consistently hammered as he racked up 91 criminal charges in four separate cases over the course of this year. Two of the cases involving his efforts to overturn the 2020 election are poised to go to trial during next year’s campaign, in Washington and Atlanta.

“President Trump is turning the tables,” said a senior Trump adviser who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly. “We are not going to allow Joe Biden and the Democrats to gaslight the American public.”

Throughout Trump’s political career, he has often responded to attacks by accusing his opponents of the same. In 2016, Trump brought women who accused former president Bill Clinton of sexual misconduct to a debate against Hillary Clinton to deflect from the release of a years-old recording showing Trump bragging about sexual battery. In that same debate, Trump responded to Clinton’s calling him a “puppet” of Russian President Vladimir Putin by saying, “No puppet! You’re the puppet.”

Trump has increasingly centered his campaign on defending himself from his criminal indictments, portraying them as politicized and repeatedly warning that he takes them as license to retaliate by using government power to investigate Democrats if he returns to the White House.

In Saturday’s speech, Trump claimed the investigations into his presidency, such as the special counsel probe of Russian interference in the 2016 election and his first impeachment for pressuring Ukraine to disparage Biden, amounted to an effort to “overthrow the duly elected president.”

He also accused Biden “and his band of Marxists, Communists and Fascists” of trying “to crush free speech, censor their critics,” and “criminalize dissent.” Trump routinely demonizes the press as the “enemy of the people,” banned reporters from covering his 2016 campaign, and last week renewed a threat to punish NBC for its coverage by revoking its broadcast license.

He added: “If you put me back in the White House, that reign will be over and America will be a free nation once again.”


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 10

Headline: Trump backers laugh off, cheer ‘dictator’ comments, as scholars voice alarm
Publish Date: Wednesday, December 13, 2023 at 10:15 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/elections/2023/12/13/trump-dictator-comments-supporters/?itid=lk_inline_manual_10 
Description: Historians, Democrats, some Republicans and even former Trump administration officials are warning that a second term would be more autocratic and extreme than the first.

Content: Many of Trump’s supporters here, in an area where the former president held a campaign event Wednesday evening, said they appreciated his comments and did not take them to be a literal declaration of an intent to govern as a dictator. Trump in recent days has returned to the “dictator” theme, on Saturday repeating his intent to “to be a dictator for one day,” to drill for oil and close down the border, while claiming two days later that he was joking.

Historians, Democrats, some Republicans and even former Trump administration officials are warning that a second term would be more autocratic and extreme than the first. Hannity’s question had been prompted by reporting from The Washington Post and others about the former president and his allies’ plans for a second term, including plans to use the Justice Department to investigate specific critics and to invoke the Insurrection Act on Inauguration Day.

“There is little reason to believe he is willing to allow the democratic process and democratic institutions to ‘stand in the way’ of him achieving whatever particular policies he is interested in,” said Sheri Berman, a political science professor at Barnard College who studies democracy, populism and fascism. “When democratic processes, institutions and norms present a hindrance or even blockage to his whims, will he stand down or does he intend to try to undermine them further? His past behavior and recent statements should lead anyone to believe it is the latter.”

As the clear polling leader in the Republican primary, Trump returned to Iowa on Wednesday in a dominant position less than five weeks before the first-in-the-nation GOP caucuses. The reception to his remarks here underscored the loyalty he has cemented in the party, with a familiar rhetorical strategy. Trump on Wednesday did not reiterate the “dictator” comments, even as he vowed to “drill, drill, drill.”

Trump often uses outrageous statements to grab attention and distract from other headlines, such as his decision to back out of testifying on Monday in a civil fraud trial against his companies in New York, according to Kim Lane Scheppele, a Princeton sociology professor. He also has a history of accusing his opponents of exactly what he does, as with his Dec. 2 speech accusing President Biden of being a threat to democracy, she said.

“I don’t think he meant what everybody is saying, being a dictatorship — and actually you know right now under Biden, that’s probably what we got because he does what he wants to do and he’s not really listening to the voters,” Reed, 66, said. “I think we need somebody that’s going to move forward fast to clean up everything, and I think that’s what he meant.”

“I love it,” said a woman in her 50s from northwest Iowa who spoke on the condition that she be identified only as Sue. “My kids call me a dictator, I thought my parents were dictators … He said he was only going to do it for a day. Like if you had a home that was in disrepair and your parents came in and they were firm and they wanted to get it done, and when you got done you had this beautiful home, how could you be mad?”

“If you repeat something often enough, it gets normalized,” she said. “Trump has done this repeatedly where he tells you exactly what he’s going to do, but then he’ll say, ‘just kidding,’ or, ‘look at their reaction,’ and he turns an outrageous statement into something everybody learns to live with, and then discount.”

She added: “He’s desensitizing everybody to the effect of what it would look like if he actually followed through on this, which I think he really is intent on doing. He’s turning it into a joke, which doesn’t mean he’s actually joking.”


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 11

Headline: Exit poll results and analysis for the 2020 presidential election
Publish Date: Thursday, December 14, 2023 at 12:29 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/elections/interactive/2020/exit-polls/presidential-election-exit-polls/?itid=lk_inline_manual_23 
Description: See how various groups voted for Donald Trump and Joe Biden based on surveys of voters.

Content: President-elect Joe Biden assembled a large enough coalition of voters in key states to unseat President Donald Trump and become the 46th president of the United States. His successful bid relied on winning margins among young and non-White voters, college graduates, independents and those concerned with racial inequality and containing the coronavirus pandemic.

Voters were concerned about the economy, the pandemic and racial inequality, according to results from national and state exit polls conducted by Edison Research. In an election marked by anxiety and litigation over voting access, a strong majority in two battleground states said they are confident their votes will be counted fairly.

About a third of voters said the economy was the most important issue in their vote for president, the results indicated. Roughly 2 in 10 said the coronavirus or racial inequality were their top issues, and smaller shares named crime or health-care policy.

Of President Trump’s voters, about 6 in 10 said the economy was their most important issue. Roughly a third of former vice president Joe Biden’s voters said racial inequality was their most important issue; slightly fewer named the coronavirus pandemic.

Voters nationally are divided about the state of the economy: Roughly half rated it negatively, with about 2 in 10 who said it is “poor.” About half of voters rated the economy positively, with just over 1 in 10 calling it “excellent.” In 2016, exit polling found 62 percent of voters rated the economy negatively, with 21 percent rating it “poor” — the lowest rating available to survey takers.

The results that The Washington Post is publishing explore demographic trends identified in national and state exit polls. These surveys randomly sample voters as they exited voting places on or before Election Day and through a telephone survey of more than 25,000 early voters to help account for the huge increase of votes cast early. Poll results have been adjusted to match vote tallies.

Amid a resurgence of coronavirus cases, exit polling found U. S. voters closely divided on whether U.S. efforts to contain the virus are going “well” or “badly.” At the same time, roughly twice as many voters said efforts to combat the pandemic have gone “very badly” than say they have gone “very well.”

Share of support among voters who said it is more important to contain the pandemic now, even if it hurts the economy

Voters were roughly divided over whether it is more important to contain the coronavirus or rebuild the economy, the exit poll results indicated. About half of voters said it is more important to contain the pandemic now, even if it hurts the economy, while 4 in 10 said that the rebuilding the economy is more important.

Though Biden won the Latino vote 2 to 1 nationally in exit polls, the surveys suggested that Trump improved his standing among Latino voters in at least two key swing states since 2016. In both Florida and Georgia, the president increased his vote margin since his matchup with Hillary Clinton four years ago. In Florida, home to many Republican-leaning Cuban voters, Trump appeared to have pulled roughly even with Biden among Latinos as a larger group. In 2016, Clinton won Florida Latinos by 27 percentage points. Though Trump trailed Biden among Latinos in other states, including Texas and Virginia, polling indicates that in most of the battleground states, he lost no ground from 2016 and may have even made modest gains.

Share of support among White voters who attended some college or less

White voters without college degrees accounted for about one-third of the electorate nationally, the surveys indicated. Trump won about 6 in 10 of those voters nationally, a slight decline from his dominance with that group in 2016. The gap between the president and Biden was even wider in Georgia, Texas, Ohio and North Carolina, a state where those Whites without college degrees accounted for nearly four in 10 voters, the surveys found.

The male vote split roughly equally between Biden and Trump, according to the national survey, down from an 11-point lead that Trump had among the group in 2016. Among women, Biden led by double digits, similar to Clinton’s lead in 2016. In a national average of October polls, women favored Biden by 23 points.

Share of support among voters who decided before the last week

More than 7 in 10 voters said they decided which candidate to support for president before September, according to exit polling. There appear to be fewer late deciders than in 2016, when 13 percent of voters decided in the final week, a group that swung in Trump’s direction in key states. This year, with many ballots cast early, about 1 in 20 voters say they decided who to support in the past week.

Almost three-quarters of voters nationally said their candidate’s positions on the issues were more important to their vote, as opposed to their candidate’s personal qualities. Biden supporters said by about a 2-to-1 margin that issues were more important than personal qualities, and by about a 5-to-1 margin, Trump supporters said the same.

Exit polling in Pennsylvania found that most of the Keystone State’s voters had confidence that votes in their state will be counted accurately. About 8 in 10 said they were at least somewhat confident in this, while roughly a third said they were very confident in this.

In North Carolina, about 1 in 10 voters identified racism as the most important problem facing the United States, according to exit polls, a share that rose to about 1 in 4 among Black voters in the state. The topic played very differently among those North Carolinians voting for Biden than among those voting for Trump. When asked about the most important issue in their vote, about 4 in 10 among those backing Biden said racial inequality topped the list. For Trump voters, that issue barely registered, dwarfed by their focus on the economy.

About 1 in 10 voters in Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania considered racism to be the most important problem facing the country, according to exit polling. But clear majorities — three-quarters or more in all three states — considered it to be an important problem. Biden voters in these states overwhelmingly said racism is an important problem; more than 9 in 10 Biden voters in Exit poll results by demographic group


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 12

Headline: Trump team data suggests clinching GOP nomination by March
Publish Date: Tuesday, December 19, 2023 at 10:00 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2023/12/19/trump-data-delegates-republican-nomination/?itid=lk_inline_manual_15 
Description: The campaign’s analysis of internal polling and public surveys puts Donald Trump on track to win enough delegates to secure the GOP nomination by March, setting up an early pivot to a general-election rematch against President Biden.

Content: WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — The Trump campaign anticipates winning enough bound delegates to secure the Republican nomination by March, setting up an early pivot to a general-election rematch against President Biden. The campaign’s analysis of its own internal polling mixed with public surveys puts former president Donald Trump on track to potentially win 973 delegates by Super Tuesday on March 5, and 1,478 by March 19, a senior campaign official told reporters here on Monday. It takes 1,215 delegates to claim the Republican nomination.

The anticipated delegate tally reflects rule changes that the campaign pushed through state party committees earlier this year, such as awarding all of California’s delegates to any candidate winning more than 50 percent.

The campaign has also put together a team of experienced operatives to guide the process at the Republican National Convention in July, focusing on the party committees dealing with the platform, rules and primary contests, according to the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal data and strategy. Two of the campaign’s top advisers, Brian Jack and Chris LaCivita, helped Trump stave off a revolt from Republicans opposed to his candidacy at the convention in 2016.

From an early conclusion to the primary, the Trump campaign is evaluating current polling against Biden indicating a potentially wider battleground map for the general election. In addition to the core swing states that decided the 2016 and 2020 elections, the campaign official said more Democratic-leaning states such as Minnesota, New Hampshire and Virginia could also be in play.

The campaign would not be running a “prevent defense,” the former president said during an unexpected drop-in to a morning briefing with reporters at his golf club here on Monday. “Still have to run it out,” Trump said.

Current polling would produce a victory for Trump of 292 electoral votes to Biden’s 246, the campaign official said. The official also noted that ads running in New Hampshire from a super PAC supporting Rep. Dean Phillips (D-Minn.) warning that Trump could beat Biden are helping to undermine the case that some of Trump’s Republican rivals have tried to stake against his electability.

Winning the nomination in March would overlap with the scheduled start of Trump’s trial in Washington on charges of trying to interfere with the 2020 election results. That case, brought by special counsel Jack Smith, is on hold pending an appeal to the Supreme Court to consider Trump’s argument that he is immune from prosecution for actions taken as president.

In Iowa, home to the first nominating contest, the campaign said it has conducted 300 trainings for 1,800 caucus captains and modeled 375,000 likely Trump supporters — far more than the roughly 220,000 Republicans expected to turn out on Jan. 15. The campaign is working to recruit first-time caucus-goers by giving captains lists of neighbors and charging them with bringing at least 10 to vote.

The vaunted Des Moines Register/NBC News/Mediacom Iowa poll released Dec. 11 showed Trump leading with 51 percent, up from 43 percent in October. Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis ranked second, with 19 percent, followed by former U. N. ambassador Nikki Haley at 16 percent. The largest margin of victory in the history of the state’s Republican caucus was Bob Dole’s 12-point win in 1988.

In New Hampshire, which holds its primary on Jan. 23, the campaign said it has 220,000 known Trump supporters, 1,600 volunteers, 10 county chairs and 150 local captains. A CBS News/YouGov poll conducted Dec. 8-15 found Trump with 44 percent support in New Hampshire, followed by Haley at 29 percent and DeSantis at 11 percent.

Trump entered the briefing from the golf course, where he said he had just shot a 71. The former president said the score was evidence of his “cognitive function.”


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 13

Headline: As Haley climbs in the polls, she confronts attacks criticized as sexist
Publish Date: Wednesday, December 27, 2023 at 02:11 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2023/12/26/nikki-haley-sexism-republican-politics/?itid=lk_inline_manual_29 
Description: The former South Carolina governor is vying to become the first woman to win the Republican nomination, but she faces long odds in a party that has been slower to elevate women into some of the most prominent elected offices.

Content: Accessibility statementSkip to main content

As Haley climbs in the polls, she confronts attacks criticized as sexist The former South Carolina governor is vying to become the first woman to win the Republican nomination, but she faces long odds in a party that has been slower to elevate women into some of the most prominent elected officesRepublican presidential candidate Nikki Haley after a Republican primary debate on Dec. 6 in Tuscaloosa, Ala. (Joshua Lott/The Washington Post)Linda Portel has watched a barrage of presidential campaign commercials this year from her living room in Urbandale, Iowa. Many have faded from her memory. But one stuck with her: an ad attacking Nikki Haley that Portel viewed as sexist. The 30-second spot tying Haley to Hillary Clinton is just the kind of broadside that Portel, who is undecided, and other Haley admirers worry could derail the former U.N. ambassador’s long-shot bid to defeat Donald Trump for the Republican nomination. A former Trump supporter, Portel is concerned that the misleading portrayal of Haley as an acolyte of a former female candidate reviled by conservatives could hurt her in the crucial weeks ahead.“Unfortunately, people don’t read between the lines,” Portel, 76, said in an interview.As Haley has risen in the polls in recent months amid a shrinking GOP field, she has faced escalating attacks from rivals and their allies that critics regard as sexist and meant to single out her gender in a Republican Party that has been slower than Democrats to elevate women into some of the most prominent elective offices. The party remains dominated by Trump, who routinely attacks women with sexist and demeaning language and was this year found liable for sexual abuse.Interviews with more than 40 Republican voters, activists and officials in key early states show a party that has never nominated a woman for president navigating conflicting opinions, including some signs of voter unease at the prospect, even as Haley has grown her support and seeks to cement her position as Trump’s top GOP challenger. Some Haley backers say they are increasingly concerned about this trend — and what they see as efforts from rival candidates and their allies to exploit it.Haley supporter Bart Weller, who attended her town hall in Ankeny, Iowa, summed up some of the challenges that Haley faces when he recalled one of his brothers bluntly telling him, “I don’t want to vote for a woman to be president.”Male rivals have gone after Haley in ways that some GOP critics say is either flatly sexist or carries sexist undertones. Trump has labeled Haley “birdbrain.” He told conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt earlier this year that she was “overly ambitious” and “just couldn’t stay in her seat.” (Haley has said being called ambitious used to bother her, but now she considers it being a “badass”).Biotech entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy has suggested Haley should switch over to “the party of identity politics” and claimed her “gender-card shtick is pathetic & straight out of the Kamala Harris / Hillary Clinton playbook.”In addition to the ad Portel watched from the pro-Ron DeSantis group Fight Right — which highlights Haley saying Clinton in part inspired her to run for office, selectively omitting her criticism of Clinton — another group supporting the Florida governor has released misleading videos splicing together similar words uttered by Haley, Clinton and Michelle Obama. Portel referenced the ad she saw in a conversation with door-knockers from a pro-Haley group, Americans for Prosperity.Haley and her allies have dismissed attacks from her male rivals, and she has delivered one-liners at debates that nod to her position as the only woman onstage. “I love all the attention, fellas,” she said during the fourth debate in Alabama, while under both policy and personal criticism from the other candidates.Others have issued more direct criticism. Barbara Comstock, a former Republican congresswoman who is on the board of both VIEW PAC and Winning for Women — two groups devoted to electing more conservative women to higher office — roundly denounced the criticisms from Trump and others.“Imagine him criticizing Vivek Ramaswamy for being overly ambitious, right? That’s something that is only applied to women,” said Comstock, who is supporting former New Jersey governor Chris Christie in the 2024 race. She noted that Trump’s “birdbrain” nickname has been largely ignored by Haley: “That’s because she’s in a party where there’s a lot of misogyny, so it makes that much more difficult for her to take that on herself.”“In the old Republican Party, there would have been a lot of men who would have stood up and said, ‘How dare you, this is outrageous,’” Comstock added. “But Trump’s unleashed everyone’s inner misogyny — so for a lot of these guys, they can openly be that way because Trump is.”Spokespeople for the rival campaigns and their allied groups defended the ads and attacks, arguing they are pointing out how Haley’s policies and some of the positions she has taken are out of step with the base of the Republican Party and that her gender should not preclude such arguments.Tricia McLaughlin, an adviser to Ramaswamy, said she found the “cries of sexism incredibly infantilizing,” and “having two X chromosomes doesn’t shield you from scrutiny.”At the same time, many of Trump’s supporters largely shrug off his controversial comments about women and his efforts to demean his past female rivals.“The women taking offense, they need a stronger backbone,” said Sandra, a recent retiree from Mason City, Iowa, who spoke on the condition that her full name not be used to protect her privacy. Though she disliked some of Trump’s tweets, she said in an interview at a local Walmart that the former president “makes me laugh.”Women of both parties face gender discrimination running for office, but experts say historical patterns show the hurdles for female Republicans can be even more pervasive because the party base tends to skew more male, and GOP voters are much less likely to say women’s political underrepresentation is a problem. A Pew Research Center study in September found major differences between the two parties when adults were asked whether it was important to see a female president in their lifetime: 14 percent of Republicans or those who lean Republican said it was; while 57 percent of Democrats or those who lean Democrat said the same.Many Republican  female voters said they like Haley’s political pitch, including her calls for consensus and unity. But Trump is leading the GOP primary field by a huge margin, including among female voters; in a recent Fox News poll, 61 percent of Republican female primary voters backed Trump while only 9 percent backed Haley.Experts who track gender in politics say that Haley has been nimble in balancing the competing pressures that female candidates often face. They note that she has maintained her likability in focus groups while also showing voters in debates that she can be tough with slashing attacks on some of her rivals.But Haley has also faced scrutiny from some activists who argue she selectively highlights her gender or race only when politically advantageous. Many Democratic critics view her frequent assertions that Kamala Harris — the nation’s first female, Black and South Asian vice president — is not qualified to be president as sexist.In head-to-head matchups with President Biden, Haley has often performed more strongly than Trump in part by appealing to a broader group of voters, including moderates, suburbanites, independents, as well as some of the former GOP women who say they left the party over Trump. Biden won a majority of women against Trump in 2020.The GOP recognizes that “we have a problem with female voters, and specifically younger female voters,” said Ariel Hill-Davis, the founder and policy director of Republican Women for Progress.“You have this really tough situation for women and candidates like Nikki Haley — where in order to make it through a primary you can’t lean into your identity,” Hill-Davis added, even though “those are actually the exact sorts of things in a general [election] that would be helpful to your campaign.”Some Democrats say they are relieved that due in part to sexist attitudes in some segments of the GOP, they believe Haley — who has shown potential to appeal across party lines in a general election — is unlikely to be the Republican nominee.“They won’t nominate her, thank God,” said Democratic pollster Celinda Lake. “What a poison sexism is.”Female politicians from both parties have long struggled to strike the balance between toughness and femininity that voters will accept, some who have run for office said.“Talking about gender is a no-win path for a female politician. If you say there are real problems that women face, then you’re a whiner. You say everything is wonderful and there are no problems at all, half the population wonders what planet you’re on,” Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), who mounted her own presidential bid in 2020, told The Washington Post.While Clinton galvanized female voters in 2016 with the goal of breaking the “highest, hardest glass ceiling,” Haley has been more subtle with her nods at her gender, emphatically stating she rejects identity-based politics.She has sported T-shirts in Iowa with pointed messages like “Underestimate me, that’ll be fun”; described her heels as ammunition; blasted Sheryl Crow’s “Woman in the White House,” at campaign events; and on the debate stage adopted a mantra of her personal hero Margaret Thatcher, Britain’s first female prime minister: “If you want something done, ask a woman.”On the trail, Haley has highlighted her role as a mom while discussing both abortion and the participation of transgender athletes in women’s sports — two areas where supporters regularly give her high marks. Haley has urged a national consensus on abortion and said the federal government should be involved, but she has largely avoided specifics, arguing that a federal ban is unlikely to pass Congress. She instead has personalized the issue, talking about her own struggles to have children, her husband who was adopted and a friend who was raped.She has maintained throughout her career that she doesn’t want to be defined as just a woman or just a woman of color — even as she has broken barriers as the country’s first female Asian American governor, the first Indian American to serve in the Cabinet, and one of the first two women of color to be elected governor of a state.“I had never asked to be elected because I was a woman or because I was Indian. For one thing, for those who cared about such things, my race and my sex were at least as much a negative as they were a positive. And for another when you do that, you’re playing the game,” Haley wrote in her memoir “Can’t Is Not an Option.”South Carolina state Rep. Nathan Ballentine (R), one of Haley’s closest allies during her time as a state legislator from 2004 to 2010, said he pushed Haley to play the “chick card” earlier in her career when she ran for governor and that she refused, saying the election was about policy.In her book, “Can’t Is Not an Option,” Haley recalls being the first and only female executive at a recycling company, where another executive asked her to grab the CEO coffee at one of her first meetings. She called her assistant to get the coffee instead and said after that moment her colleagues treated her as an equal.When she ran for office she was discounted as inexperienced and was thought to have no chance in part because a woman hadn’t served as governor before. Once elected, she writes about being careful not to lose control of her emotions as a woman.Amanda Hunter, the executive director of the Barbara Lee Family Foundation, a nonpartisan organization focused on researching women running for executive office, described Haley as “one of the most adept women leaders that we’ve seen in recent history at navigating the tightrope that women have to walk.”Hunter said that Haley’s campaign has effectively woven her gender and race into her message without making it the core of her appeal, and they have also given voters permission to say those attributes don’t matter.But political strategists stressed that Haley has many obstacles ahead — predicting that the gendered and sexist attacks on her will intensify further as she attempts to become the first woman to make it to the White House.Frank Sadler, who managed Republican Carly Fiorina’s presidential campaign in 2016, said that female candidates must overcome subconscious expectations from voters that candidates should look the part of what they imagine a president to look like. That’s a challenge, he said, when there have only been male presidents.Some voters such as Cheryl Wensel, who attended a Trump Commit to Caucus event in Coralville, Iowa, earlier this month, noted a similar point and said she doesn’t think Republicans would elect a female president: “It would be different, it would be strange.”But Haley has also appealed to many Republican women, drawing growing crowds in key early states. In interviews with more than 30 in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina, many noted that they identify with Haley’s experiences, even as they underscore that they don’t believe in identity politics.“I like that she’s female — but that isn’t the only reason. I think that she’s just a very strong, politically savvy candidate. And I like that she speaks her mind as well,” said Iowa voter June Locke, who attended a Haley town hall in Cedar Rapids. “It’s about time. We know that we’re the stronger sex.”Her pitch has also appealed to independent women like Charlie Pogue, who said at a Haley town hall in Hooksett, N.H., that she’d “vote for Satan over Trump.” While she supported Democratic business executive Andrew Yang in 2020, she now likes “pretty much everything” that Haley says.Many of the women said they believe Haley is a unifier and could bring the country together more effectively than a male president. They praised what they see as her emphasis on consensus rather than name-calling, and how she talks about being a mom. For some who are volunteering for her campaign, the idea of electing the first female president is a strong motivator.At a Haley event in Boiling Springs, S.C., Spartanburg resident Jen Pappas said: “The gender does not impress me, but because I am a female, I agree with a lot of things … I think she’s more understanding. Men seem to be more [for] themselves, while she seems more to be for others.”Former New Hampshire speaker pro tempore Kimberly Rice, a co-chair of Haley’s campaign in the state, said she never considered supporting Haley because of her gender but that she thinks she is the ideal role model for her four daughters and granddaughter “because she is not only strong and fierce, she is also compassionate and caring, in a way that I think that a female leader should be.”Yet admirers like Chris Hurayt, a 64-year-old retiree in Boiling Springs, sympathize with Haley’s challenges ahead. “She’s the only woman out there against all these other guys, and it’s always been a man’s world.”Hannah Knowles, Isaac Arnsdorf and Marianne LeVine contributed to this report.Get live results from the South Carolina primary and the latest news on the 2024 election from our reporters on the campaign trail and in Washington.Who is running? The top contenders for the GOP nomination are former president Donald Trump and former U.N. ambassador Nikki Haley. For the Democrats, President Biden is running for reelection in 2024.Republican delegate count: GOP candidates for president compete to earn enough delegates to secure their party’s nomination. We’re tracking the Republican 2024 delegate count.Key issues: Compare where the candidates stand on such key issues as abortion, climate and the economy.Key dates and events: From January to June, voters in all states and U.S. territories will pick their party’s nominee for president ahead of the summer conventions. Here are key dates and events on the 2024 election calendar.‘He has been almost invincible’: Why Trump is likely to dominate South Carolina‘He has been almost invincible’: Why Trump is likely to dominate South Carolina


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 14

Headline: Haley’s calls for ‘consensus’ on abortion draw mixed interpretations
Publish Date: Tuesday, January 23, 2024 at 05:54 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/01/23/haley-abortion-new-hampshire/?itid=lk_inline_manual_11 
Description: Nikki Haley’s vague stances on abortion have drawn mixed reviews in New Hampshire. They have also helped her appeal to voters on both sides of the issue.

Content: In her long-shot campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, which is meeting a critical juncture here Tuesday in the first-in-the-nation primary, Haley, a former U. N. ambassador and South Carolina governor, has stuck carefully to a position of compromise and few specifics when it comes to one of the country’s most polarizing issues.

Some here said they see her as a “pro-choice” candidate, others as one who is “pro-life.” Many agree that she seems more reasonable and less extreme than her rivals. Haley allies hope her posture will help her against-the-odds bid in a state where many Republicans favor abortion rights.

In a Republican Party that has struggled to navigate the politics of abortion since Roe — which had established the constitutional right to an abortion — was struck down in 2022, Haley is offering what some Republicans see as a blueprint for talking about the issue in the future. By avoiding specifics and instead highlighting her personal life experiences and repeatedly urging “consensus,” Haley has managed to appeal to voters on both sides of the issue.

“She has great ideas, especially about abortion. That was a big one for me,” Rowley, 20, said while waiting for Haley to speak at a town hall in Rye, N. H., earlier this month. “She’s really focusing on areas that both political parties can knuckle down on and fix to make for a better America, and I think that’s such a different forward movement than any other politicians that we’ve seen in the past.”

“I’ve said I’m fine with a federal law. But the thing is, in order to get a federal law, you have to have a majority of the House, 60 senators and a signature of the president,” she said in the interview, adding, “No Republican president can ban abortions, any more than a Democrat president can ban any state law. What we can do is let’s find consensus.”

“She said she wants it to be a states’ rights issue. And obviously I would want it more of to be pro-choice at a federal level. But I like that … she’s not going to make it outlawed on a federal level,” said Keenan, 21. “That’s better than, like, getting rid of it.”

While Haley continues to emphasize that there is a federal role to be played in abortion law, she has avoided many of the details at the center of contentious disagreements on abortion, including the specific number of weeks of pregnancy at which she would want to see abortion banned. Instead, she has focused on how her life and career informed her thinking and on the need to find common ground.

She’s invoked personal experiences as a mother who struggled to have children, as the wife of an adoptee and as a friend of a woman who was raped. She has spoken in broad terms about trying to “save as many babies as possible and support as many moms as possible.”

But in interviews, many Democratic and independent voters at Haley’s events said they were willing to look past any concerns they have about Haley’s record or the possibility of a GOP president passing a federal ban — in large part because of the fact that Haley has spoken in more personal and cooperative terms than other Republicans.

“Coming from a very strong pro-life stance, I feel the same way she does,” said Cail, 50. “I think she’s reasonable about it. … It’s a sad thing if it happens, but it’s not that you want to put people in jail for doing it; it’s just something that you’d like to avoid.”


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 15

Headline: Biden brings home first official win in South Carolina primary
Publish Date: Saturday, February 03, 2024 at 11:00 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/03/biden-south-carolina-primary/ 
Description: The incumbent’s campaign hopes a successful showing springboards his campaign in the states ahead and quashes intraparty doubts about some polling that has shown him trailing Donald Trump in a potential general-election matchup.

Content: President Biden won the Democratic primary in South Carolina on Saturday, notching a decisive victory in his party’s first official nominating contest. The Associated Press called the race shortly after polls closed Saturday night. Biden entered the day as a massive favorite over two long-shot rivals, Rep. Dean Phillips (Minn.) and self-help author Marianne Williamson, in a state that was key to turning around his campaign four years ago. He is heavily favored to win renomination, even as he battles low approval ratings and concerns percolating in his party about how he would do in a general election.

The incumbent’s team hoped a big win would springboard his campaign in the states ahead with a show of strength and quash intraparty doubts about some polling that has shown him trailing former president Donald Trump in a potential rematch. Saturday’s vote was also expected to provide a measure of Biden’s standing among Black voters, who helped propel Biden to victory and made up 56 percent of Democratic primary participants in the state four years ago, according to exit polls.

For the first time, South Carolina was at the top of the Democratic nominating calendar, moving ahead of two states with considerably less racial diversity. The state was pivotal to Biden’s 2020 nomination, and leapfrogged Iowa and New Hampshire at the behest of the president and his allies.

Seeking to counter a decline in approval for the president among some Black voters, the Biden campaign has underscored actions the administration has taken to help benefit Black communities. But some concerns about struggles to overhaul policing laws and protect voting rights remain a hurdle, operatives say.

Voters can choose to participate in either party’s primary in South Carolina, with the Republican contest scheduled for Feb. 24. Some Democratic voters have said they are considering casting a ballot for Nikki Haley, the former South Carolina governor, who is far behind Trump in the GOP contest.

Gibbs Knotts, a College of Charleston political scientist, said the turnout appeared to be lower due to the lack of competitiveness in the race. That could be helpful in the Republican primary later this month to Haley, who could draw on the voters who lean left but didn’t participate in the Democratic primary, as she mounts an uphill challenge against the clear front-runner Trump, Knotts said. In advance of the Democratic primary, some voters received texts encouraging them to wait for the Republican primary and vote for Haley.

In recent weeks, Biden, first lady Jill Biden and Vice President Harris campaigned in the state and made the case the administration has prioritized affordability, such as cutting the price of insulin; driven Black unemployment rates down to the lowest level in history; and contrasted sharply with a Trump presidency that they have argued would threaten Social Security and health care through the Affordable Care Act.

“The truth is I wouldn’t be here without the Democratic voters of South Carolina, and that’s a fact,” he said to applause from the mostly Black audience. “So, I want to start with a very simple message: From the bottom of my heart, thank you, thank you, thank you.”

Phillips and Williamson have challenged the incumbent, in part arguing that they would be better positioned compared with Biden to take on Trump, but the rivals have yet to make a dent in Biden’s firm Democratic support. Phillips acknowledged his long-shot odds ahead of Saturday’s vote and said he plans to focus his efforts in Michigan, the next state in which he’s on the primary ballot, where Arab and college-aged communities have expressed some concerns about Biden.

Democrats close to Biden pointed to the president’s win in New Hampshire’s unsanctioned primary on Jan. 23, where he got about 64 percent of the vote despite not being on a ballot or campaigning in the state, far ahead of Phillips, who spent months in the Granite State and received less than 20 percent. (The DNC has said it will not seat New Hampshire delegates at the convention because the state ignored the party’s new nominating schedule that put South Carolina first.)

When Rose Marie Holman, a 76-year-old Charleston voter, listened to Phillips speak at a Democratic event in November, she nodded along as he discussed the need for new faces in their party. But Holman ultimately cast an early ballot for Biden because she thinks he has the best chance of protecting democracy, a top concern of hers.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 16

Headline: Trump wins Nevada’s GOP caucuses
Publish Date: Thursday, February 08, 2024 at 11:00 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/elections/2024/02/08/trump-nevada-caucuses/ 
Description: Trump’s victory positions him to sweep most, if not all, of the state’s 26 delegates after facing virtually no opposition.

Content: None of the other major candidates chose to participate in Thursday night’s caucuses, where candidates had to pay $55,000 to the Republican Party to compete, and Trump’s strong alliances with Nevada Republican Party leaders helped seal his victory. Trump’s only remaining rival, former U. N. ambassador Nikki Haley, opted not to participate in the caucuses because she argued that party officials had rigged the state’s entire primary and caucus process to help Trump.

“We’re not respected even a little bit, and you understand why,” Trump said. Claiming that the United States “does not have leadership,” he criticized President Biden, whom he is likely to face in a rematch this fall. “I just want to really thank the great people of Nevada, because this was a turnout. … The all-time caucus record was broken.”

He did not dwell on the ongoing primary fight for the Republican nomination but instead looked ahead to the general election in November and the role that the Silver State will play as one of the most competitive battlegrounds.

“If we win this state, we easily win the election in November,” he said. “We have to win the election. Go back home, rest and then come back, because we’re going to turn this whole thing around,” Trump continued. “If we win the state of Nevada, it’s over for them. And our country’s going to be better, greater, bigger, more beautiful than ever before.”

“His back-to-back losses in 2016 and 2020 made him the first Republican in decades to lose the state twice,” Floyd said, referring to the general election in those two presidential cycles. “He and his MAGA minions may be able to rig a caucus for him now, but Trump won’t be able to escape becoming a three-time loser in Nevada this November when voters once again reject his MAGA extremism.”

Nevada was the third early-state contest where delegates are on the line, coming after Iowa and New Hampshire, where the former president won decisively and claimed a commanding advantage in the race for the Republican nomination.

Under the state GOP rules, candidates were not permitted to compete in both contests, and the primary was virtually meaningless because the party’s delegates were being allocated to whichever candidate won Thursday’s caucuses. Trump was the only major presidential candidate competing in the caucuses.

After Haley and several other GOP candidates placed their names on the primary ballot — and chose to forgo the caucuses — many of Trump’s supporters chose the “none of these candidates” option on the primary ballot as a show of support for the former president.

Haley’s campaign manager emphasized both before and after the caucuses that the former South Carolina governor had not spent any money or effort in Nevada after concluding that the delegate rules were set by the state’s party leaders in a fashion that would be most favorable to Trump.

After her loss in the Nevada primary, Haley responded in an interview on Wednesday that she had not campaigned in the state because “Trump rigged it” and called the state’s system “a scam.” She also noted that one Trump ally in particular, Nevada GOP chairman Michael McDonald, was indicted in a probe related to Trump’s false claims about the 2020 election. Late last year, a Nevada grand jury charged six Republicans — including McDonald — who claimed to be presidential electors in 2020 and submitted certificates to Congress falsely asserting that Trump had won the election in their state.

In 2016, Trump won the GOP caucuses in the Silver State on the strength of his anti-establishment appeal and his promises to “drain the swamp” in Washington, outmaneuvering competitors who were better organized, including Sens. Marco Rubio (Fla.) and Ted Cruz (Tex.). President Biden narrowly won the 2020 general election race in Nevada, but the state will once again be highly competitive in November.

Nevada voters had selected its presidential nominees for decades by attending the caucuses held by their respective parties. But after the 2020 elections, Democratic lawmakers pushed to hold a statewide primary and forgo the caucuses, which often drew low turnout and were largely controlled by party activists. Over the objections of Republicans, Democratic state lawmakers passed a 2021 law guaranteeing that every state voter would receive a primary ballot in the mail, as well as options to vote in person or at a drop box.

The state’s Republican leaders sued the state — arguing that Democratic lawmakers could not determine their process for choosing delegates — and won the right to award delegates through their caucus process. The conflict resulted in the confusing situation this week in which GOP voters were able to cast a ballot in Tuesday’s state-run primary but will decide which candidate should get the 26 delegates in the separate Republican Party-run caucuses on Thursday night.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 17

Headline: The 2024 campaign in a day: Biden’s acuity vs. Trump’s alleged criminality
Publish Date: Friday, February 09, 2024 at 10:19 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/09/2024-campaign-biden-versus-trump/ 
Description: The special counsel report and Supreme Court arguments in a single day encapsulate the foundational challenges for both leading presidential candidates and signal a negative year of campaigning to come.

Content: These are among the reasons most Americans tell pollsters they are unhappy with the likely prospect of former president Donald Trump and President Biden as the two nominees. Both are elderly and given to verbal gaffes. Both are disliked by most Americans. Both seem to represent the past more than the future. Yet they are hurtling toward a rerun of the 2020 election, and by November, unless something changes, voters will have to choose.

With Trump cruising toward the Republican nomination and the Biden campaign eager to shift the focus to November’s choices, it has been clear for many weeks that the 2024 general election would be the longest in history. After Thursday’s events, it was also clear, as if it weren’t before, that this campaign will be fought almost entirely on negative turf, a dispiriting prospect for an already sour electorate.

Negativity is always Trump’s way — a campaign of invective, grievance, victimhood and insult. But there is a growing chorus among Democrats that Biden’s best hope of retaining office must go beyond accentuating accomplishments. Instead, he will be urged to attack, to draw contrasts with Trump as sharply and relentlessly as possible, while projecting an aura of fitness and competence to counter deep concerns about his age and acuity.

Thursday might have turned out as a day when the Biden campaign gained some political high ground. It began at the Supreme Court, where the justices heard oral arguments about whether Trump should be disqualified from the ballot in Colorado. The larger question looming over the proceedings was whether the former president was an insurrectionist.

It is extraordinary that someone who did what Trump did in the aftermath of the 2020 election — who did what he did ahead of the Jan. 6, 2021, attack on the Capitol, who still claims falsely that the election was stolen and who speaks of a second term as retribution — is in what now seems to be a toss-up race against Biden. In fact, many recent polls show Trump with a narrow edge.

On the basics, the report was helpful to Biden. Special counsel Robert K. Hur concluded that, despite what Biden had done, he would not be prosecuted. In the report, he drew contrasts between how Biden and his team had handled the whole matter and how Trump dealt with the same issue. Trump, of course, has been indicted on a charge of mishandling classified documents and for obstructing efforts by the government to get them back — all told, a seeming win for Biden.

By the end of the day, however, the picture looked entirely different — overall, a bad day for the president. The justices, as it turned out, generally skirted the issue of Trump and insurrection. Instead, they raised serious doubts about the ruling by the Colorado Supreme Court to keep Trump off the ballot. Even some of the court’s more liberal justices indicated through their questions that they thought Colorado had overstepped. The Supreme Court justices appeared headed to a decision, with potentially a strong majority, in Trump’s favor.

Far more troublesome for Biden, however, were the damaging details in Hur’s report about his cognitive issues during five hours of interviews last October and earlier with a ghostwriter working on Biden’s memoir, “Promise Me, Dad.” The special counsel drew a portrait of an elderly president beset with serious memory problems, including forgetting when he served as vice president and the year his beloved son Beau had died.

Hur’s report counsel concluded that, even if what Biden had done with respect to the classified documents warranted an indictment after he leaves the presidency, a jury would be reluctant to convict “a sympathetic, well-meaning elderly man with a poor memory.” The special counsel’s decision not to prosecute Biden could not have been more damning in its political impact.

Biden advisers protested that the conclusions and details about Biden’s memory problems were gratuitous and went beyond the purview of the special counsel investigation. Democrats attacked Hur as a Republican out to help Trump by inserting non-germane material harmful to Biden. Nonetheless, the report stoked the already smoldering age issue facing the president and generated another round of attention on a weakness that Biden and his team have struggled to overcome.

On Thursday evening, the White House hastily called a news conference in which Biden sought to forcefully rebut the special counsel’s report. He was palpably angry with Hur’s characterizations and especially upset that Hur had even touched on the issue of his son’s death. As for the overall characterization of him in the report, Biden said, “I am well-meaning, and I’m an elderly man, and I know what the hell I’m doing.” Later when pressed about his memory, he asserted, “My memory is fine.”

Biden suggested that the issue of his age was one prompted only by the press; in fact, public polling and lots of anecdotal evidence show that this is on the minds of many Americans. He also confused the president of Egypt with the president of Mexico, the third time in a week when he had made a mistake identifying a foreign leader.

Trump, of course, routinely makes similar mistakes of his own. White House officials were quick to note that Trump recently confused Nikki Haley, his remaining challenger for the GOP nomination, with Nancy Pelosi, the former Democratic speaker of the House — something Haley reminds crowds of at her rallies as she tries to argue that both Trump and Biden are past their prime.

Perhaps it is an oversimplification and a disservice to the candidates to suggest that the election is a choice between someone who has violated constitutional norms while in office and someone who struggles to overcome fears, even among people who will back him in November, about his ability to handle the stresses of the presidency into his mid-80s.

The election will not be free of other issues and choices. Biden and Trump present a sharp contrast on how they would approach the question of America’s role in the world. Trump appointed justices who helped end the constitutional right to abortion; Biden will champion abortion rights. Trump threatens massive deportations of undocumented immigrants. Biden struggles to bring the surge of migrants across the U. S.-Mexico border under control. Biden will prioritize safeguarding democracy and democratic institutions against the threat of authoritarianism.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 18

Headline: How to use a famous name to your political advantage
Publish Date: Monday, February 12, 2024 at 06:45 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/12/robert-kennedy-ad-anti-vax-pac/ 
Description: Well, assuming you’re rich.

Content: Perhaps one could argue that Robert F. Kennedy Jr.’s prominence is unrelated to his last name. Maybe, had he been born Robert F. Stevenson, he would still have become a well-known activist who eventually tipped over into conspiracy theories and anti-vaccine activism. Cut through the 2024 election noise. Get The Campaign Moment newsletter.But then perhaps the advertisement that aired during Sunday’s Super Bowl promoting Kennedy’s long-shot independent challenge to President Biden would have focused a little bit less on his last name.

If you saw the ad when it aired during the first half of the game, you almost certainly understood that it was appealing to some form of Kennedy nostalgia. The obvious inspiration was an ad run by the campaign of Kennedy’s uncle John F. Kennedy during the 1960 presidential campaign.

Many of the illustrations and most of the lettering were lifted from the 1960 version, as was the song. There were important differences. Instead of saying “vote Democratic,” for example, the new version suggested that viewers “vote independent” — with the exception of one lingering “vote Democratic” that was written in small letters on a sign. But the drumbeat of “Kennedys” was preserved.

On the surface, it’s an odd gambit. Only about 3 percent of current U. S. residents were old enough to vote in 1960; presumably not a whole lot more remember the Kennedy era enough to have nostalgia for it. But, then, a Gallup poll conducted last year found that 90 percent of American adults view JFK’s presidency favorably, so why not tap into that sentiment?

Instead, it was a product of a super PAC called American Values 2024. If you had never heard of this organization before, you are not alone. It has existed for less than a year; in 2022, the PAC was called the “People’s Pharma Movement.” Its parent organization focuses on spreading anti-vaccine rhetoric in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.

But American Values 2024 has been the beneficiary of substantial contributions, including millions from billionaire Timothy Mellon (of the Mellon Mellons). He has a history of contributing to political initiatives he thinks are important, such as giving millions to an effort to build a wall on the U. S.-Mexico border. Mellon also gave tens of millions to PACs backing Donald Trump’s 2020 reelection bid.

Outside spending on behalf of a candidate is referred to as independent expenditure. There are strict rules governing such spending, notably that committees engaged in independent spending cannot coordinate with candidates. After all, if they could, the independent efforts could simply raise unlimited money that the candidate could direct, obliterating campaign-spending rules.

Usually, independent expenditures do what American Values appears to have done here, spending money on efforts to promote candidates that such groups think are going to be useful. At the very least, the ad did trigger a sudden surge in search interest focused on Kennedy — though well below searches for Biden at his peak last week and, in the hours after the ad, well below both Trump and Biden.

During this election cycle, an independent-expenditure effort went further. Much of Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis’s bid for the Republican nomination was driven by a PAC called Never Back Down. The result was a great deal of public fighting, an enormous amount of money spent and an embarrassing finish for the candidate.

It is not always the case that spending by outside groups aims solely to boost candidates, of course. In the case of American Values 2024, there are certainly some participants, like Lyons, who have long-standing relationships with the candidate and seem invested in his election.

But if you were a billionaire interested in boosting an alternative to Biden among people who, say, view JFK with nostalgia? A PAC like American Values would be a good place to park $10 million or so.

From the standpoint of the campaign, the independent spending for the Super Bowl spot let Robert F. Kennedy Jr. have his cake and eat it, too. Soon after the spot ran and American Values shared it on social media, Kennedy shared it as well. If you visit Kennedy’s page on X (formerly Twitter), the independent ad is his pinned — that is, featured — post.

“I’m so sorry if the Super Bowl advertisement caused anyone in my family pain. The ad was created and aired by the American Values super PAC without any involvement or approval from my campaign,” it reads. “FEC rules prohibit Super PACs from consulting with me or my staff. I love you all. God bless you.”

See, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. is not the only inheritor of the political power of the Kennedy dynasty. Cousin Bobby Shriver (whose mother, Eunice Kennedy, was Robert F. Kennedy Sr.’s sister) blasted the ad as exploiting images of the family in service of the candidate’s political views.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 19

Headline: RFK Jr. Super Bowl ad highlights the paradox that is his campaign
Publish Date: Monday, February 12, 2024 at 09:51 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/12/rfk-jr-super-bowl-ad-highlights-paradox-that-is-his-campaign/ 
Description: The voters most likely to wax nostalgic about the Kennedys are the ones who dislike Robert F. Kennedy Jr. the most. But his impact on the race is more muddled.

Content: Robert F. Kennedy Jr.’s third-party presidential campaign has polled historically well as an abstraction. And a super PAC supporting him spent millions of dollars Sunday on a Super Bowl ad seeking to capitalize on that abstraction. Cut through the 2024 election noise. Get The Campaign Moment newsletter.The ad from the super PAC may have been many Americans’ introduction to Kennedy’s 2024 campaign. And to the extent the ad actually featured content, it was: Did you know he’s a Kennedy? The ad borrowed heavily from John F. Kennedy’s 1960 campaign advertising, effectively inserting the former president’s nephew in his place. Robert F. Kennedy Jr. apologized to the many family members who don’t support him (but he was still featuring the ad on his personal X account when this post published).

The controversy is one thing. The strategy is another. The ad highlighted a counterintuitive circumstance — that the voters most likely to wax nostalgic for the Kennedy era are the least likely to view this Kennedy favorably.

YouGov polling last month showed no combination of age and party affiliation had less regard for Kennedy Jr. than Democrats 65 and older — in other words, the Democrats who were alive when John F. Kennedy was elected president. They disliked Kennedy Jr. by a 67-point margin. The next most anti-Kennedy group? Democrats ages 45 to 64, who disliked him by a 20-point margin.

By contrast, as you’ll notice from the above chart, every group of Republicans had a favorable view of Kennedy. We noted when he was switching from the Democratic primary to an independent run that this has long been a feature of his poll numbers — Republicans liking him a lot more than Democrats. This led to some fear among Kennedy’s most prominent Republican-oriented boosters (who transparently wanted him to embarrass President Biden in the primaries) that his candidacy could wind up hurting Trump.

Today, despite the numbers cited, it’s less clear that’s going to be the case. Kennedy is still significantly more popular among Republicans, but he appears to be pulling about evenly from both parties. The vast majority of his support comes from independents. Trump tends to do slightly better in polls that include third-party candidates, but that might owe more to left-leaning candidates Cornel West and Jill Stein.

And here’s another factor. Yes, Republicans like Kennedy more. But the Republicans who like him a lot tend to be aligned with Trump, and they already have a candidate (Trump).

A recent NBC News poll showed twice as many Trump voters said they would consider backing Kennedy (45 percent) as Biden voters who said the same (22 percent). But virtually every poll shows similar numbers of Republicans and Democrats actually backing Kennedy, and a recent University of Massachusetts-YouGov poll showed equal numbers of Biden 2020 and Trump 2020 voters supporting Kennedy (6 percent apiece).

Similarly, a recent Quinnipiac University poll showed Kennedy pulling about evenly from Trump and Biden, but he would pull way more from the GOP nominee if it were Nikki Haley. While Trump ceded just 7 percent of Republicans to Kennedy, Haley ceded 24 percent.

What it all means is that you’re likely to see a very concerted effort to define Kennedy in the 2024 race. Democrats will point to his conspiracy theories about vaccines and his ties to Trump supporters; Republicans will point to his more liberal policies (as Utah Sen. Mike Lee did Sunday while praising Kennedy’s ad).

It appears likely that Kennedy’s vote share will fall away as the election nears, as is almost always the case with third-party candidates. But if he’s anywhere near the double digits he currently draws in polls, the political lean of the voters who stick with him could be hugely consequential.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 20

Headline: New York special election results 2024
Publish Date: Tuesday, February 13, 2024 at 08:00 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/elections/results/2024/02/13/new-york-district-3/?itid=sn_elections_3/ 
Description: Live-updating election results, maps and analysis from New York's 3rd District special election to replace former Rep. George Santos.

Content: The Washington Post uses vote count data from the Associated Press, which uses a 50-state network of local reporters to gather election results directly from state, county and local elections offices. AP checks vote tallies against state and county election websites to ensure they are accurate. AP also calls winners when they are certain that a candidate will win. The Post is reporting AP race calls during the 2024 primaries. Read more details about AP's vote counting process.

The Washington Post uses vote count data from the Associated Press, which uses a 50-state network of local reporters to gather election results directly from state, county and local elections offices. AP checks vote tallies against state and county election websites to ensure they are accurate. AP also calls winners when they are certain that a candidate will win. The Post is reporting AP race calls during the 2024 primaries. Read more details about AP's vote counting process.

Development and production by Lakshmi Bethanabotla, Lenny Bronner, Dana Cassidy, Dylan Freedman, Jen Haskell, Claire Helms, Daniel Kao, Ben King, Chloe Langston, Shahryar Mozumder, Diane Napolitano, Anthony Pesce, Jaya Subrahmanyan and Nhi Tran. Product management by David Lee and project management by Henna Nawab. Design by Audrey Valbuena.

Editing by Ashlyn Still and Rachel Van Dongen, with additional support from Scott Clement, Bryan Flaherty, and Candace Mitchell. Visual editing by Chiqui Esteban, Greg Manifold and Virginia Singarayar.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 21

Headline: Wisconsin Republicans vote to weaken their lock on the legislature
Publish Date: Tuesday, February 13, 2024 at 11:26 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/13/wisconsin-legislature-maps-gerrymandering/ 
Description: New maps approved Tuesday are expected to make control of Wisconsin’s legislature more competitive after years of GOP domination.

Content: MADISON, Wis. — Wisconsin Republicans approved maps Tuesday that would weaken their ironclad grip on the state legislature, backing new district lines supported by the Democratic governor out of fears that the state’s top court could impose ones that are even worse for them. Cut through the 2024 election noise. Get The Campaign Moment newsletter.If approved by Gov. Tony Evers, the package would jettison what experts consider one of the country’s most gerrymandered set of maps in a state that has been one of the most competitive in presidential and other statewide races.

Republicans have known since last year that their majorities could face a severe blow, after liberals took control of the state Supreme Court following an expensive and bruising election for a pivotal seat.

“We kind of have a gun to our head, frankly,” state Sen. Duey Stroebel (R) said during the floor debate. After voting to approve the new maps, state Sen. Van Wanggaard, another Republican, compared his decision to choosing to be stabbed instead of guillotined.

Democrats, who had just secured one of their biggest wins in a decade, appeared no happier than Republicans. Nearly all of them voted against the maps and privately fumed over a missed chance to get a better deal.

Republicans took control of the legislature during the tea party wave of 2010 and soon after established maps that locked in huge majorities. They used them to cut taxes, weaken unions, expand gun rights and limit the powers of Evers and the state’s Democratic attorney general. They have consistently blocked Evers’s agenda since he was elected in 2018.

During the campaign, Protasiewicz called the state’s legislative maps “rigged” given how greatly they favored Republicans. She said she would welcome a chance to review them, and litigants gave her that opportunity by filing a lawsuit the day after she was sworn in.

Republicans were so alarmed by Protasiewicz’s victory and the prospect of losing their maps that they threatened to impeach her if she remained on the case. They backed off the idea weeks later, and Protasiewicz and the court’s other liberals issued a 4-3 decision in December striking down the maps.

The court urged Evers and the legislature to draw new maps and said it would impose ones that were politically neutral otherwise.

Of the proposals for new maps that court consultants have deemed viable, the ones by Evers provided the fewest gains for Democrats. Republicans on Tuesday decided to approve those maps.

Republicans hold a 64-35 advantage in the state Assembly, two votes shy of a veto-proof supermajority. If Evers’s version of the maps had been in place last year, the Republican edge would probably have been much smaller — 53-46 — according to an analysis by Marquette University research fellow John Johnson.

That would be a significant improvement for Democrats, but other maps before the court would have been even better for them, putting them on the verge of the majority.

In the state Senate, Republicans have a veto-proof 22-10 majority, with a vacancy in a heavily Democratic seat. If in place in 2022, the new maps probably would have shrunk that margin to one vote, giving Republicans a 17-16 edge, according to Johnson’s analysis.

In the immediate aftermath of the vote, Evers did not say what he would do, but he has said in recent days that he would approve the new maps if Republicans did not amend them.

If Evers vetoes the maps, the state Supreme Court will choose ones for the state. If he signs off on them, the lawsuit is likely to end.

Tuesday’s vote does not affect the state’s congressional maps. Republicans hold six of the state’s eight congressional seats. A group of Democratic voters have asked the state Supreme Court to strike down the congressional maps, but the court has not said whether it would do so.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 22

Headline: Much of the GOP is on-board with the Taylor Swift conspiracy theories
Publish Date: Wednesday, February 14, 2024 at 04:05 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/14/gop-swift-superbowl/ 
Description: A new poll shows nearly one-third of Republicans believe Swift is part of a “covert government effort” to help President Biden. And those who have heard of the theory are about evenly split.

Content: The very-online right’s insane Taylor Swift conspiracy theories seemed Taylor-made for determining just how readily an increasingly conspiratorial Republican Party would believe virtually anything could be part of a deep-state plot. Cut through the 2024 election noise. Get The Campaign Moment newsletter.We finally have our first indication of just how much this kind of thing can penetrate the party.

A new Monmouth University poll shows that Americans as a whole overwhelmingly reject the idea that Swift is part of a “covert government effort” to reelect President Biden in 2024, 73 percent to 18 percent.

But within the Republican Party, there is a remarkable level of support for the proposition. The poll shows that about one-third of Republicans — 32 percent — believe Swift is indeed part of that covert government effort. Another 57 percent say such an effort doesn’t exist.

It’s worth asking just how people interpreted the poll question. Do people understand a “covert government effort” to include the more absurd theories that the NFL effectively rigged things so Swift’s boyfriend Travis Kelce and the Kansas City Chiefs could win the Super Bowl and Swift could ride the publicity to helping Biden in 2024? Do they believe the theory floated by Fox News’s Jesse Watters that Swift is part of a “psyop” pushed by the Defense Department? Or do they understand this as merely the idea that Swift would endorse Biden in 2024, as she did in 2020? (Swift has made her left-leaning politics clear dating back to 2018.)

But the word “covert” seems to suggest something nefarious and underhanded. And the poll shows a substantial number of people say they’ve consumed news about the idea, including nearly half (46 percent) of Republicans.

Tellingly, the poll showed that Republicans who had actually heard of the theory were much more inclined to embrace it. Republicans who said they were familiar with the idea were nearly evenly split: 44 percent said such a “covert government effort” exists, while 47 percent said it didn’t.

These are small sample sizes with large margins of error. But the results suggest that pushing these ridiculous ideas into the ether can find a very credulous audience in the GOP. Perhaps it says more about people’s media diets — with more conspiratorial Republicans more likely to consume media that promotes such theories. Still, the fact that only about half who were familiar with the theory rejected it says a lot.

The poll is merely the latest to suggest that a significant segment of the Republican Party is inclined to believe baseless conspiracy theories about the deep state. For example:


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 23

Headline: Tracking the Trump investigations and where they stand
Publish Date: Thursday, February 15, 2024 at 11:36 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/interactive/2023/trump-investigations-indictments/?itid=lk_inline_manual_11 
Description: Former President Donald Trump has been indicted in four cases — all while leading the Republican field in the 2024 presidential race. Here's the latest news on each.

Content: Donald Trump is the first former U. S. president to face criminal charges. He has been indicted in four cases — all while leading the Republican field in the 2024 presidential race. He has denied wrongdoing in each case. Even if Trump were convicted, he could still run for president. Here is the latest in each of Trump’s four criminal cases.

The Manhattan district attorney charged Trump with falsifying business records in connection with hush money payments to adult-film actress Stormy Daniels during the 2016 election.

New York Supreme Court Justice Juan Merchan denied a motion to dismiss the case and ordered jury selection to begin on March 25. Trump has pleaded not guilty.

The case will mark the first-ever criminal trial of a former U. S. president. Trump may also have clinched the 2024 Republican presidential nomination by the start of the proceedings. A conviction would not bar him from running or holding office.

Daniels was paid $130,000 on the eve of the 2016 election to keep quiet about a sexual encounter she says they had years earlier. Trump denies the affair but has admitted to reimbursing his former lawyer, Michael Cohen, for the payments. Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg alleges Trump misclassified the reimbursement payments as legal expenses when they were actually campaign expenses. Read more about the charges in the New York case.

Federal prosecutors charged Trump with illegally hoarding classified documents from his presidency and conspiring with aides to cover up his actions.

An additional set of charges, filed on July 27, say Trump and an aide, Carlos De Oliveira, sought to delete security footage from Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate to prevent investigators from seeing it.

Trump is accused of dozens of violations of national security laws that the Justice Department says jeopardized some of the nation’s most closely guarded secrets. With the additional charges, prosecutors are painting a more detailed picture of a coverup by showing how Trump and aides allegedly tried to destroy evidence in the case.

A federal grand jury initially charged Trump in June with 37 counts, including willful retention of national defense secrets, obstruction of justice and conspiracy. He now faces a total of 40 federal charges. Another aide, Walt Nauta, was also indicted in June, accused of helping Trump. The trial is scheduled to begin in May 2024 but could be delayed. Read the full indictment.

Federal prosecutors charged Trump for conspiring to overturn the results of the 2020 election. He is accused of spreading claims about voter fraud that he knew to be false, then pressuring local, state and federal officials to block Joe Biden’s victory.

Trump has pleaded not guilty to all four counts in the indictment. His legal team argued that presidential immunity shields him from prosecution in the case and asked to have the charges dismissed, but U. S. District Judge Tanya S. Chutkan ruled against him in December, and an appeals court upheld her ruling in early February. Trump can appeal the appeals court decision to the Supreme Court. A planned March 4 trial date has been postponed until the appeal is resolved.

The charges in the indictment are among the most serious that can be brought against a former U. S. president. The indictment accuses Trump of seeking to sabotage the peaceful transfer of power, a bedrock of American democracy.

Jack Smith was tapped in November 2022 as special counsel to handle the investigation. Investigators looked into the Trump campaign’s attempts to raise money off false claims of election fraud and plans for “fake electors” who could deliver the election to Trump. The indictment lists six co-conspirators, but none of them have been charged. Read more about the government’s case against Trump.

The district attorney in Fulton County, Ga., indicted Trump and 18 others in August in connection with their attempts to reverse Trump’s 2020 election loss in the state.

Trump faces 13 counts, including violating the state’s racketeering act, soliciting a public officer to violate their oath, conspiring to impersonate a public officer, conspiring to commit forgery in the first degree and conspiring to file false documents. Four of his co-defendants have pleaded guilty to illegally conspiring to overturn his defeat and  could testify if other defendants go to trial.

Claims that Fulton County District Attorney Fani T. Willis (D) engaged in an improper personal relationship with the special prosecutor she appointed to lead the investigation have led to motions from Trump and others to disqualify her and her office, throwing the case into legal peril.

This is the most expansive indictment brought against Trump regarding the 2020 election.  Willis used Georgia’s powerful anti-racketeering law — originally created to take down organized crime — to indict not only Trump but a network of allies who allegedly sought to help him.

Willis launched the investigation more than two years ago after audio leaked from a January 2021 phone call in which Trump pressured Georgia’s Republican secretary of state to “find” the votes to reverse his loss and threatened vague criminal consequences if he refused. Read more about how Trump tried to undo his election loss.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 24

Headline: Ariz. Republican who stood up to Trump after 2020 won’t seek reelection
Publish Date: Thursday, February 15, 2024 at 04:15 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/15/ariz-republican-who-stood-up-trump-after-2020-wont-seek-reelection/ 
Description: Hickman is part of a wave of elected Republicans who have clashed with Trump and have decided to retire from public office.

Content: PHOENIX — After years of violent threats and harassment for accepting the results of the 2020 election in Arizona’s largest county of Maricopa, the Republican who led the Board of Supervisors during the last presidential election said Thursday that he will not run for reelection. Cut through the 2024 election noise. Get The Campaign Moment newsletter.Clint Hickman (R), 59, an egg farmer and former Trump supporter who twice refused to answer phone calls from the former president after his loss and has provided information to special counsel Jack Smith’s investigators about his experience, said his time will be better spent with his wife and kids.

Hickman, who has represented an area west of Phoenix for a decade, told The Washington Post that he will serve out his term through early 2025 and carry out his election-related duties that are part of his job through the 2024 election before stepping down.

“To be able to give back to a place that has given so much to me is an honor,” Hickman said in a statement. “But time is a valuable commodity. We use it and we never get it back.”

His decision comes amid continued attacks on the GOP-led county’s administration of elections in Arizona’s most populous metropolis, a county that is once again poised to play a major role in a presidential election. It has become routine for critics of the board to shout down county supervisors during public meetings. In recent months, agitators have been escorted out of meetings by sheriff’s deputies.

Maricopa County was central to efforts four years ago to overturn Trump’s loss, and when that failed, to cast suspicion on the results through an unreliable review of more than a million ballots that was led by a Florida-based firm known as “Cyber Ninjas.”

Hickman is the second Republican in eight months who’d been critical of his own party’s handling of Trump and election denialism to decide against pursuing another term to sit on the five-member county board. It reflects the continued command of the Arizona party by election-denying Republicans, led by Trump and his allies and senate candidate Kari Lake. In June, Supervisor Bill Gates, who was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder because of sustained attacks on him and his family after the 2020 election, said he would not run.

The last presidential electoral outcome drew conspiracies involving Hickman and his business and threats against him and his family. In the days after the contest, Hickman rejected appeals by allies of Trump to stop counting votes and to delay certification of the election results. Along with then-House Speaker Rusty Bowers (R), who later testified before the House committee that investigated the Jan. 6 attack, Hickman examined claims of widespread voter fraud and determined that they were untrue. Saying he was adhering to the requirements of his oath of office, he voted to canvass the 2020 election results. As MAGA supporters protested outside of his home in the days after they election, Hickman prepared his two sons to defend themselves and their home if protesters turned violent and sheriff’s deputies were overrun.

In 2021, MAGA supporters falsely claimed that fires that burned down two barns at one of his family’s farms had destroyed ballots from the 2020 general election. Last summer, he came face-to-face in federal court with a man from Iowa who in 2021 threatened Hickman’s life and was later sentenced to prison.

Hickman’s experiences were featured in a 2021 Washington Post investigation describing the events that led up to the attack on the U. S. Capitol and how the misinformation and threats proliferated following it.

Hickman said he was proud of his time on the board, especially his chairmanship during the deadly 2020 pandemic. But the job, he said, is no longer appealing. In a statement, Hickman said that his family “has been gracious and unselfish” in supporting him, even when his decisions “brought significant attention and had profound impact.”


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 25

Headline: For the new Republican Party, more voters are a good thing
Publish Date: Thursday, February 15, 2024 at 07:26 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2024/02/15/gop-losing-special-elections-low-turnout/ 
Description: The old conventional wisdom held that high turnout benefited Democrats and hurt Republicans. Recent elections have jolted those assumptions.

Content: Both remarks have enough truth in them to keep other Republican politicians doing their customary balancing act. They will calibrate just how Trumpy they need to be to win their primaries and keep the Republican base motivated without alienating too many anti-Trump voters to win the general election.

But Trump isn’t the whole story. Even before his 2016 campaign, Republicans had been shedding college-educated White voters while gaining among White voters without degrees. Trump accelerated both trends. Some of the consequences of that trade have worked well for Republicans. Michigan was a Democratic stronghold when blue-collar voters tilted left. Trump won it in 2016 and kept it close in 2020, and it’s one of a handful of swing states in 2024.

Suozzi’s victory demonstrates one of the disadvantages of the new Republican coalition: It performs worse than it once did in special elections. Democrats have won three of the four special elections for the House during this Congress. Since the beginning of 2016, seven special elections for the House have resulted in party switches. With Suozzi, Democrats have now won five of those.

Each of these elections had its own peculiarities. In the race to replace the expelled fabulist George Santos, for example, Suozzi benefited from a Republican opponent who campaigned less than he did. But the change in the composition of the parties has influenced all these outcomes.

The old conventional wisdom held that high turnout benefited Democrats and hurt Republicans. Non-White and younger voters heavily backed Democrats but did not vote as frequently as White and older voters. Americans with college degrees were reliable voters and leaned toward the GOP; Americans without them voted for the Democrats but voted less often.

Both parties knew it, and their understanding has lurked in the background — and not always far in the background — of how each party thinks about ballot access and voter fraud. Not too long ago, it was believed that Republicans had a structural advantage in midterm elections and that Democrats had one in presidential elections for this reason: Reliable Republican voters would cast their ballots in every election, but in presidential years, millions of Democrats would show up, too.

Since then, though, a lot of voters with college degrees have left Republicans, while still being eager to wear those “I voted” stickers. It’s harder to get Republicans’ new voters to show up for elections. And that can make a difference in special elections, which usually have lower turnout than national and especially presidential elections. “The demographic climate has gotten more favorable for Democrats when it comes to special elections,” sums up Patrick Ruffini, a Republican pollster and the author of “Party of the People,” a book about his party’s remade coalition.

The 2020 elections should have jolted both parties’ old assumptions. Voter turnout was high, but Republicans gained seats in the House and in state legislatures. But Trump kept Republicans from drawing the lesson that high turnout is compatible with a strong performance by them. He lost his own race, narrowly, because of his unpopularity and decision to discourage Republicans from using mail-in ballots. He cultivated the myth that widespread voter fraud had cost him the election. And by sabotaging two Republican candidates in Georgia, he handed control of the Senate to Democrats. All of this tended to reinforce the Republican tendency to fear high turnout. In the debates about election laws after 2020, the parties stuck to their customary positions.

Republicans’ recent losses in special elections might finally be starting the process of dislodging the old thinking. So might polls in the presidential race, which are beginning to suggest President Biden is doing better among likely voters than among registered voters — another reversal of the pattern that used to prevail. The dated assumptions about midterms vs. presidential elections might be next to go. This fall, it might be Democratic strategists who are crossing their fingers for low turnout.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 26

Headline: Every day in the Trump Legal Universe will be a total spectacle
Publish Date: Thursday, February 15, 2024 at 10:32 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2024/02/15/trump-courtroom-political-campaign/ 
Description: The former president’s courtroom appearances are historic, and will be a political sideshow.

Content: It’s hard to believe, but this is really happening: The first of Donald Trump’s felony trials is set to begin March 25. The former president will be running for the White House from the defense table in a Manhattan courtroom, where he will have to sit all day, every day, for as long as a month. Silently.

This presidential campaign has hurtled through a portal into the Trump Legal Universe, which is like the Marvel Cinematic Universe, except for being real. If you’re like me, you might not have spent a lot of time thinking about just how unprecedented and deeply weird it would be, in an election year, to have the leading Republican candidate for president being tried on criminal charges that could send him to jail. We are about to find out.

On Thursday in New York, Trump sat grim-faced as Justice Juan Merchan set that late-March date for jury selection in Trump’s trial. Those charges, filed by Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg, stem from Trump’s alleged hush-money payoff to adult-film star Stormy Daniels (whose real name is Stephanie Clifford).

“We strenuously object. … President Trump is going to now spend the next two months working on this trial instead of out on the campaign trail,” complained Todd Blanche, Trump’s lawyer in that case.

Meanwhile, in Atlanta, Judge Scott McAfee was hearing testimony about the personal relationship between Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis — who has charged Trump with 13 felony counts for allegedly conspiring to overturn Georgia’s 2020 election outcome — and Nathan Wade, the outside attorney Willis hired to help prosecute the case.

At issue is when Willis and Wade began dating and whether that romance was misrepresented to the judge or presents a conflict of interest. McAfee could go so far as to disqualify Willis and her office from the case, which would mean other prosecutors would have to be found, thus delaying that trial substantially.

But back in New York, Judge Arthur Engoron is expected to rule as soon as Friday in the civil fraud case brought against Trump and his firm by New York Attorney General Letitia James. She has asked Engoron to impose a fine of $370 million and ban Trump and the Trump Organization from doing business in New York real estate.

And in Washington, U. S. District Judge Tanya S. Chutkan would likely schedule Trump’s trial — on felony charges based on Trump’s role in the Jan. 6, 2021, Capitol insurrection — to begin soon after the trial in Merchan’s courtroom ends. That timing would depend on whether the Supreme Court decides to consider Trump’s claim of “absolute immunity,” which an appeals court panel has swatted away as not remotely a thing.

So far, Trump has tried to turn all of this into an asset. He portrays himself as the victim of “a Biden directed Political Witch Hunt for the purpose of Election Interference,” as he claimed in a social media post. And the Republican Party base seems to agree.

But while an NBC News national poll this month showed Trump leading President Biden among registered voters, 47 percent to 42 percent, it also found that Biden pulled ahead, 45 percent to 43 percent, when those respondents were asked which candidate they would support if Trump were found guilty of a felony offense. And a Bloomberg poll found that 53 percent of voters in seven crucial swing states said they would be unwilling to vote for Trump “if he is convicted of a crime.”

If Trump really believed that images of him sitting at a defense table and being held accountable in a court of law were a political plus, he wouldn’t be trying so hard to get all of his criminal trials delayed until after the election.

Nikki Haley, Trump’s last remaining challenger for the GOP nomination, warned Thursday on X (formerly Twitter) that “all of this chaos will only lead to more losses for Republicans up and down the ticket.” Her party might not listen, but she might well be right.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 27

Headline: The Trump gravy train is about to run over the RNC. Good.
Publish Date: Friday, February 16, 2024 at 12:45 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2024/02/16/trump-republican-national-committee-rnc-co-chair/ 
Description: If this is what needs to happen to break the GOP out of its Trump trance, so be it.

Content: The Trump gravy train is about to run over the Republican National Committee. Former president Donald Trump officially endorsed his daughter-in-law Lara Trump to become co-chair of the RNC. This would be her first leadership role within the party, but she’s nonetheless considered qualified for the job because she’s related to the likely 2024 nominee. Hey, it definitely says something when your foremost professional achievement is marrying Eric Trump.

Meanwhile, Donald Trump has endorsed two other staunch allies for top RNC posts: Michael Whatley, chair of the North Carolina Republican Party and a rabid 2020 election denier, to be chairman; and Chris LaCivita, a Trump campaign senior adviser, to be chief operating officer. LaCivita would still keep his role with the Trump campaign, CBS News reports.

These positions are not exactly appointments; chair and co-chair must be elected by RNC committee members. But given Trump’s stranglehold on every other GOP-connected institution — up to and including the U. S. House of Representatives — they should be shoo-ins.

Trump ascended to office on promises to run government like a business, and as president, that he did — by taking those exact kleptocratic, nepotistic business instincts and applying them to the executive branch.

Trump’s family relations also did okay in this arrangement. For instance, Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner ran the administration’s Middle East policy — then shortly after leaving office, secured a $2 billion investment from a fund led by Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, known as MBS. When asked this week about this investment and the U. S. intelligence report finding the crown prince had murdered Post contributor Jamal Khashoggi, an exasperated Kushner responded: “Are we really still doing this?”

I dredge all this up partly because right-wing outlets have tried to memory-hole it — more fun to talk about Hunter Biden’s shady art sales, I guess. But also because it’s a useful preview of what Trump familial leadership of the RNC could look like. Trump’s grift-first-and-govern-later management style may have been disastrous for democracy when his people ran the White House but could be terrific when applied to ravaging the GOP.

For instance: Lara Trump recently said on Newsmax that, if elected RNC co-chair, she’d ensure “every single penny” of RNC funds goes toward putting her father-in-law back in the White House. This might unsettle down-ballot candidates, who also need a few pennies here and there. But hey, if past is prologue, they might be able pry away some RNC money for their own events — assuming those events are held at Mar-a-Lago or another venue that channels donor money to their party leader’s bank account.

In any case, the RNC is on its worst financial footing in at least a decade. With the Trump family in charge, it seems likely that any available funds will be diverted not toward the races where they’re put to best use but to wherever they’re most advantageous (politically, legally or financially) for the paterfamilias.

Good. The RNC needs to go broke, to be as poorly run as possible, if the Grand Old Party is to ever shake out of its Trump trance.

None of this means incompetent management of the party will doom Trump in November. This is a man adept at failing upward. But win or lose, Trump will be laughing all the way to the bank.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 28

Headline: Massacre survivors plead with Republican candidates to talk about guns
Publish Date: Friday, February 16, 2024 at 12:59 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2024/02/16/mother-emanuel-survivors-gop-candidates-trump-haley/?itid=lk_inline_manual_2 
Description: The candidates vying for the GOP nomination, if they address the nation’s carnage at all, make no mention of safeguarding access to the weapons used.

Content: Accessibility statementSkip to main content

Massacre survivors plead with Republican candidates to talk about gunsThe Rev. Eric S. C. Manning at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, known worldwide as Mother Emanuel, in December 2023. (Gavin McIntyre)CHARLESTON, S.C. — The pastor meant to devote Bible study to the gravity of marriage, but here they were, once again, talking about guns.“A man shot his girlfriend and then killed himself,” one congregant said from the second row of their historic Black church, referencing a clip he’d just seen on the news.“How do we intercede,” a woman to his left chimed in, “when we notice the warning signs?”The Rev. Eric S.C. Manning, senior pastor at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church — known worldwide as Mother Emanuel — had prayed for the words to counsel his members through America’s ceaseless violence. They were all aware, intimately so, that the worst can happen and nothing much changes.This Wednesday meeting used to convene in the basement before a white supremacist showed up one June night in 2015 and opened fire, killing nine people. Now Republican presidential candidates and their backers crisscrossing South Carolina ahead of the state’s Feb. 24 primary seemed to be exhibiting what the 56-year-old pastor called a “lapse in memory.”Since the start of January, the United States has counted six mass killings, its rate of firearm-wrought bloodshed outpacing every other wealthy nation by far. The candidates vying for the GOP nomination, if they address the carnage at all, make no mention of safeguarding access to the weapons used in attack after attack after attack.Donald Trump and Nikki Haley’s comments on the campaign trail have troubled Manning and others close to Mother Emanuel, many of whom have lobbied for stronger background checks, a policy shift most Americans support, only to meet resistance from conservative leaders. The familiar disappointment crept back when, just as the Republican contenders were descending on Iowa for its caucuses, a teenager not far from Des Moines staged the first school rampage of 2024. Meet-and-greets resumed before the dead were buried.Haley, the former South Carolina governor, had offered the most detailed policy solution: funding more mental health care — though, she said, the states would have to pay for it. The pastor doubted that approach on its own would make a dent in the country’s daily death toll.Trump, meanwhile, was calling himself “the best friend gun owners have ever had in the White House.” As president, he briefly considered tightening background checks in 2019 after gunmen in El Paso and Dayton, Ohio, killed 31 people over one August weekend. Then, under pressure from the National Rifle Association, he scrapped that idea, saying, “A lot of the people who put me where I am are strong supporters of the Second Amendment.” These days, he boasted about doing nothing — literally, the pastor lamented.“During my four years, nothing happened,” Trump told a gathering of NRA members this month in Pennsylvania. “And there was great pressure on me having to do with guns. We did nothing.”His remarks at a northeast Iowa rally one day after the school shooting in rural Perry killed an 11-year-old boy and the high school principal had landed like salt in the Mother Emanuel congregation’s psychic wound. It was “so surprising” and “just terrible,” Trump said before adding, “but we have to get over it.”Looking out at the pews now, the pastor saw people who had not been surprised, not in the least, including church historian Lee Bennett, who’d grown up practically across the street and knew all nine of the Charleston church massacre victims.Bennett recited their names while guiding tours of Mother Emanuel. There was Myra Thompson, who had been a few years behind him in grade school, perhaps also prone to staring out the window at the pool only White kids could use. And DePayne Middleton-Doctor, who’d left behind four young daughters.A retired Army infantry officer, Bennett respected the Second Amendment but wished lawmakers would update regulations for the modern era. Back when it was written, he liked to point out, a single-shot musket took a minute to reload. Armed with a handgun, Dylann Roof had invaded their basement and sprayed 10 bullets in a matter of seconds. Now Bible study convenes upstairs behind locked doors.Tonight the group was discussing what Jesus says about divorce when the conversation veered to abusive partners with guns. The woman who’d asked the question — “How do we intercede when we see the signs?” — shared that she would have died had she stayed in her marriage.The pastor understood. As a kid, he’d watched his mother endure a violent relationship.“I was in ninth grade,” Manning told the congregants. “I was scrawny. He had a gun, and I could not even protect my mom.”The police lacked power, too: South Carolina has never had a red-flag law, so state courts can’t intervene to temporarily remove a firearm from someone deemed dangerous. Haley wanted to keep it that way, saying at a town hall last summer after announcing her candidacy: “I don’t trust the government to deal with red-flag laws. I don’t trust that they won’t take them away from people who rightfully deserve to have them.”She and Trump had both opposed closing what activists dubbed the Charleston loophole, the technicality that permitted Roof to buy a .45-caliber Glock before the FBI completed a background check that would have rendered him ineligible. Under federal law, gun sales can proceed if such a probe takes longer than three days, but since the massacre, 22 states have moved to expand that window. South Carolina has not.Manning hoped Haley would change her mind, considering she’d attended the funerals here. Instead, just that morning, she was talking about Mother Emanuel on “The Breakfast Club” radio show, detailing her push to remove the Confederate flag from the State House in wake of the killings. Roof had uploaded photos of himself holding the flag, along with a manifesto in which he declared: “We have no skinheads, no real KKK, no one doing anything but talking on the internet. Well someone has to have the bravery to take it to the real world.”Yet in the same interview, Haley said the national media had rushed in to “define” the massacre. “They wanted to make it about guns,” she said. “They wanted to make it about racism …”It was about guns, the pastor thought. It was about racism.It was why he’d traded his sports coat and bow tie uniform for casual attire that helped him blend in. It was why his office had a flat-screen television playing 14 angles of surveillance footage.It was why Hali Doctor had to grow up without her mother.Trump’s team was organizing a fundraiser upstate, and Haley would soon be heading to her next meet-and-greet in the capital at Doc’s Barbeque. Six miles south, Hali Doctor was trying to ignore it all.In the library on Columbia College’s leafy campus one late January afternoon, she scrolled through TikTok videos before her first volleyball practice of the season.Swipe. Someone was talking about an “anti-aging drug for dogs.”Swipe. No one was talking about politics or anything the college senior found equally depressing. Hali, 21, had tweaked her algorithm to maintain what she called her “bubble of peace.”In the rare event a candidate appeared on her screen, she’d flick them away, though her strategy wasn’t foolproof. She’d heard what Trump said after the Iowa school shooting: “But we have to get over it.”Hali said she would never “get over” what happened to her mom.DePayne Middleton-Doctor, an ordained minister who loved singing Gospel songs, was 49 when Roof ambushed Bible study. Hali had been 13, the second-to-youngest of her four daughters.Her oldest sister turned to activism, but Hali dreaded revisiting her pain that way. She’d even declined an invitation to meet President Biden last month when he visited Mother Emanuel for a campaign event.“I’ve got class,” she told her friends, who didn’t pry.She appreciated that Biden was trying to restrict access to guns in the face of endless gridlock. Her sister had kept her apprised of everyone’s stances. But to Hali, no politician was saying with appropriate passion what she longed to hear — that gun violence was the most urgent issue in America, that it should be treated like a national emergency, that people like her, millions of people, must cope with loss every second of their lives. It’s always humming in the background, threatening to spill into conversations that should be mundane. It’s tattooed on her left hand: “Angel Energy,” because, her family says, she and her mother shared the same gentle aura.The last politician who inspired her was President Barack Obama, when he sang “Amazing Grace” at the memorial for Mother Emanuel’s slain pastor. Hali stood in the crowd while the whole world watched and, in that moment, it felt like there was nothing more important than stopping the bloodshed.Haley had been there, too. The root of the problem, the former governor said last month, was “the cancer that is mental health.”“You can be mentally ill and hurt no one,” Hali imagined saying if they ever crossed paths again. “What makes you a threat is the gun.”Her iPhone clock signaled it was nearly time for warm-ups, so she made her way over to the gym. Her volleyball team, the Koalas, had a new coach, and Hali didn’t know much about him yet — just that he’d come from Los Angeles.She stepped onto the hardwood court, the first player here, and saw him emerge from his cinder block office.“Hey, Hali!” he called out, and they started chatting about his move.Drew Burdette, 35, was wondering if he could vote later this month in the primary. He’d lived in South Carolina a decade ago and might still be registered here as a Republican, he explained, but would back anyone against Trump.“I like anybody who can find some way to make it harder to get guns,” Hali replied. “Make it so hard that people don’t even want a gun anymore.”Her mother died, she told him, at Mother Emanuel.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 29

Headline: Texas builds base near border where the state is quarreling with feds
Publish Date: Sunday, February 18, 2024 at 03:08 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2024/02/17/texas-abbott-new-base-border/ 
Description: The Texas base in Eagle Pass is expected to house up to 1,800 National Guard members as part of the state’s response to illegal border crossings.

Content: Flanked by armed National Guard members, Texas Gov. Greg Abbott (R) announced on Friday plans to build a base housing up to 1,800 troops in Eagle Pass, close to the riverfront area where state leaders have been at loggerheads with the Biden administration over immigration enforcement. The base, planned to house an initial 300 troops by April, is the latest effort by Abbott to curb border crossings into Texas under a mission dubbed Operation Lone Star that he began less than two months after President Biden was inaugurated. Plans for the base come as the country gears up for a presidential election and reckons with the hundreds of thousands of migrants who have illegally crossed the southern border in recent months.

The base “will amass a large army at a very strategic area. It will increase the speed and flexibility of the Texas National Guard to be able to respond to crossings,” Abbott said Friday during a news conference in Eagle Pass. “... This will organize substantial forces also to expand the razor-wire barriers that are going up.”

The 80-acre “forward operating base” — a phrase the U. S. military used to label many of its camps dotting Iraq and Afghanistan — will sit near the Rio Grande. It will also include command posts, weapons storage rooms, vehicle maintenance bays and a helicopter pad, according to Maj. Gen. Thomas Suelzer, the head of the Texas Military Department.

Forward Operating Base Eagle, as Abbott called it, will reduce the pricey hotel stays and hour-long commutes some troops have been making each way to fulfill their border duties, the governor said.

“Before now, the Texas National Guard had been scattered across this entire region in cramped quarters, away from fellow soldiers, and sometimes traveling long distances to do their job,” Abbott said in a statement. “This base camp is going to dramatically improve conditions for our soldiers.”

A contract, awarded Feb. 9 to the New Braunfels, Tex., company Team Housing Solutions, lists a completion date of Sept. 7 and a price of about $131 million for the construction of the base, the military newspaper Stars and Stripes reported.

The base will be about six miles south of Shelby Park — the battleground between Texas and the federal government that has been the site of thousands of unauthorized border crossings from Mexico.

Abbott seized control of Shelby Park, located in Eagle Pass along the banks of the Rio Grande, in January. He blocked Border Patrol agents from the park, which they have long used as a staging point. Abbott argued that the federal government wasn’t doing enough to stop the illegal crossings, but his critics said the move was inhumane and a dangerous overreach of state power.

In January, the Biden administration sued Texas over its immigration policies. Later that month, the U. S. Supreme Court ordered that Abbott let the Border Patrol remove the razor-wire barriers that prevented agents from reaching the river to help migrants in distress. Instead, Abbott installed more razor wire — a move encouraged by 25 Republican governors who signed a letter of support.

“Our goal is to make sure we expand the effectiveness of that razor wire to more areas along this border,” he said.

Abbott has also received support from the presumptive 2024 Republican presidential nominee in his dispute with the Biden administration. Former president Donald Trump wrote on social media Jan. 25 that Texas “must be given full support to repel the invasion.”

The situation has gotten so toxic that extremism monitors warn that they see signs of the Jan. 6, 2021, attack on the U. S. Capitol in Abbott’s defiance of federal orders, as militia-style group members visit Eagle Pass.

Texas’s first border czar, Mike Banks, who oversees state border security, said Friday that the facility coalesces troops so they can better do the job that the federal government refuses to do.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 30

Headline: Seeing Haley’s attacks on Trump, some claim her as a member of the resistance
Publish Date: Sunday, February 18, 2024 at 11:00 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/18/haley-trump-resistance-gop-primary/ 
Description: But the former S.C. governor rejects the resistance label, saying her campaign “is not an anti-Trump movement.”

Content: “We need to wake up to the fact that — you look at what happened a few days ago — Donald Trump lost immunity, Republicans lost the vote on the border, Republicans lost a vote on Israel, Republicans fired their party chair. And basically you look at that: Donald Trump had his fingers on all of that,” Haley told reporters after the rally. “Everything that he has done, from the rants, to talking about revenge after New Hampshire, to everything in between — it is total chaos.”

Yet her more forceful tone against Trump has elevated Haley as a voice of the Trump opposition, leaving some Democrats and Never Trumpers cheering her on, while others gripe that her rebukes of the former president are insufficiently harsh. It also risks alienating some of the very Republican voters she needs to win over, and their reluctance to embrace a full-throated anti-Trump message, even from a fellow Republican, underscores the near impossibility of taking on Trump in a GOP primary, where he commands overwhelming loyalty from the party base.

“The way I think of Nikki Haley is she’s someone whose apartment started flooding, like, 10 years ago and she went and worked for the flood and now she’s putting a towel down and thinking that’s going to be effective,” said Pat Dennis, president of American Bridge, a Democratic super PAC supporting Biden. “It took until literally the most possible pressure for her to turn against Trump. She mostly ran this campaign on ‘Trump is a great guy’ until very recently.”

Some anti-Trump groups have also channeled their efforts toward helping Haley, even if their main motivation remains detracting from Trump. PrimaryPivot, a group urging independent and Democratic voters to vote for Haley in upcoming Republican contests, sent more than 200,000 text messages the day before the Feb. 3 Democratic primary in South Carolina, urging recipients to “make your vote count” and suggesting they could have greater impact voting in the Republican primary on Feb. 24. Last week, the group sent up a follow-up text targeting highly educated left-leaning voters who did not vote in the Democratic primary, reminding them they can “still vote for a candidate that respects democracy in the more competitive primary.”

“We actually don’t like Nikki Haley very much. We don’t like her position on abortion. We don’t like her position on climate change. We don’t like her position that she’s going to pardon Donald Trump without seeing the evidence,” said Robert Schwartz, a co-founder of PrimaryPivot. “But that’s not the point. The point is that she would not end the peaceful transfer of power as Donald Trump has already done — well, attempted to do.”

“She’s not against Trump, per se — they’re opponents — but she represents a wing of the party and she’s speaking for us and it’s important for the rest of the party to be reminded we exist,” said Eric Levine, a New York-based Republican lawyer and fundraiser supporting Haley. “We need to give them an alternative. We need to give my wife a reason to vote Republican. She will not vote for Donald Trump; she will vote for Nikki Haley.”

“We could see that if anybody could beat Trump, it was going to be her,” Floras said. “And we knew that part of that was the fact that we know that she can beat Biden. I have Democratic friends who said, ‘Don’t vote for Nikki Haley, because we’re afraid she’s going to beat Joe Biden.’ And I say, ‘What does that say about Nikki Haley? And what does that say about Joe Biden?’”


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 31

Headline: Obamacare worked. The nation should double down.
Publish Date: Sunday, February 18, 2024 at 12:15 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2024/02/18/obamacare-affordable-care-act-trump-biden-congress/ 
Description: Ten years after the Affordable Care Act’s full implementation, the law fills a crucial gap in the health-care system — and is still in danger.

Content: After President Barack Obama and a Democratic Congress shepherded the Affordable Care Act into law 14 years ago, Republican critics portrayed it in almost apocalyptic terms. One member of the House called it “the most dangerous piece of legislation ever passed in Congress.” A presidential candidate called it “the death knell for freedom.” Even now, the GOP has not entirely given up on bashing the law known as Obamacare. Former president Donald Trump has said he will “seriously look at alternatives” because, as he put it, “Obamacare sucks.”

No, it doesn’t. To the contrary, it’s kind of incredible how badly those initial Republican prophecies of doom have aged. On its key objective — reducing the rate of uninsured Americans — Obamacare has been a clear success. Whereas 18.2 percent of non-elderly Americans lacked health coverage in 2010, only 9.2 percent were without it in the first three months of 2023, according to U. S. government survey data. The Biden administration announced last month that a record 21 million Americans have enrolled in health-care insurance plans through Obamacare’s marketplaces. Government subsidies ensure that none of these enrollees pay more than 8.5 percent of their household income for a decent health plan; many qualify for plans at low or no cost to themselves. The premium volatility that defined Obamacare’s early years has settled. Meanwhile, the law’s expansion of eligibility for Medicaid has covered millions more people.

And the law has reshaped Americans’ expectations about their health-care system, enabling young adults to stay on their parents’ health plans up to age 26, providing coverage for people with preexisting conditions and reducing the risk that leaving a big employer means losing health insurance. By cutting “job lock,” it has the long-term potential to boost entrepreneurship and risk-taking.

Granted, getting here was hard. Marketplace premiums initially bounced around. HealthCare.gov, the federal portal for Americans to buy Obamacare insurance plans, was at first nonfunctional. A 2012 Supreme Court ruling enabled states to choose whether to expand Medicaid within their borders, and 10 still have not done so, leaving many people in those states without coverage.

But those who counseled patience, arguing that the most ambitious health-care reform in a generation would eventually succeed, turned out to be right. Obamacare, which polled badly in its early years, in part due to partisan GOP condemnation, has become quite popular: 59 percent of adults favor it, according the most recent data.

Still, risks lie ahead. Even if a reelected Mr. Trump were to try and fail at repealing and replacing Obamacare, as he did during his presidency, a second Trump administration could still undermine the law by executive action — as he also did while in the White House. Perhaps more important, leaving the status quo intact could result in disruption, no matter who wins the 2024 election. The federal subsidies that help Americans afford Obamacare marketplace plans are set to partially expire in 2025. Without them, many people — particularly those in their 50s and 60s, whom insurers may still charge more for coverage — would see their costs spike. Some would risk going uninsured rather than pay higher premiums.

Meanwhile, some 2 million Americans fall into the “Medicaid coverage gap” in states that still refuse to expand Medicaid. A quirk in the Affordable Care Act denies them federal subsidies to buy private insurance on Obamacare marketplaces. Most of these are working, low-income people — cashiers, cooks, waiters, house cleaners and janitors, according to KFF, a nonprofit organization that researches health-care issues. States gain nothing from holding out on this vulnerable group; KFF projects that non-expansion states could actually realize fiscal benefits from expanding Medicaid to cover them, because doing so would bring a large influx of federal money.

As experience continues to show what a mistake it has been not to expand Medicaid, pressure could mount on Republican state leaders who still refuse to do it. But it might fall on Congress to finish the job, by boosting the incentives for holdout states, or by helping affected people buy private plans. While lawmakers are at it, they should address the most significant area in which the law has fallen short: controlling high national health-care spending. The law’s drafters included measures to cut the national health tab, such as a tax on high-value “Cadillac” health-care plans. Congress eliminated the Cadillac tax years after the law passed. At a time of high national deficits, and in a country in which the health sector accounts for more than 17 percent of gross domestic product, Congress should reconsider — indeed, expand on — Obamacare’s full promise.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 32

Headline: Biden, Trump campaign efforts in Michigan show a sharp contrast in tone
Publish Date: Monday, February 19, 2024 at 04:06 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/19/biden-trump-michigan-presidential-campaign/ 
Description: Competing gatherings offered a glimpse of the strategies that the Trump and Biden campaigns are pursuing in the run-up to November.

Content: The Democrats met in a beige room with a fluorescent glow, one of the many modest labor offices that dot metro Detroit like old VFW posts or churches or chain stores. There were far too many black folding chairs for the dusting of attendees, and one of the organizers encouraged everyone to move up to the front. But the greater challenge was just getting people to sit down from their side conversations.

No one here was a stranger. They knew each other from past campaigns, from presidential to the most local — the latest being persuading voters to approve a property tax to fund public transit. They were the most reliable, committed party faithful, here to freshen up their enthusiasm and messages so they could go on to inspire their networks on behalf of an incumbent president who, admittedly, was not doing a lot of inspiring on his own.

As much as Democrats here knew they could not afford to take anything for granted in this crucial county in this crucial state that could decide the electoral college — and as much as they stressed the stakes of the election, for rights from abortion to voting — they also acknowledged that they were still searching for a way to energize a worried and weary electorate. To one speaker, that meant not just warning about the perils of a second Trump term but also promoting the possibilities of four more years of Biden.

The incumbent, 81, has been making unusually few public appearances amid widespread agonizing over how he shows his age, and his surrogate as the special guest at Friday’s event was Rep. Sara Jacobs (D-Calif.), a 35-year-old San Diegan in her second term and a member of House leadership. “If you had any doubt about how important Michigan is to the Biden-Harris campaign, they asked me to come to Michigan when it’s 70 degrees at home, and I said yes,” she said to laughter and applause. (The high that day was 33 degrees.)

“Donald Trump wants an America where we are not the ones who get to decide and be trusted about our most fundamental rights, whether that is the right to make decisions about our own bodies and our own health care, or the right to marry who we love, or the right to vote,” Jacobs said. She recounted her own experiences on her fourth day in office, Jan. 6, 2021, cowering behind chairs in the House chamber. “He was willing to let me, my colleagues, Vice President Mike Pence and our democracy die. Joe Biden believes that our democracy is worth saving. His presidency is proof that democracy can actually deliver.”

Outside on the curb, a man walked by wearing a scarf in the white and black print of the Palestinian people, along with a woman who started pointing and calling out, inaudible through the thick windows. A few of the organizers inside started closing the blinds to avoid any further disruption. But it was already an unwelcome reminder of the party’s fractures over the destruction in Gaza. Some organizers are encouraging Democrats to select the “uncommitted” option on their ballots in the Feb. 27 primary here, aiming to hit 10,000 such protest votes — symbolizing roughly the margin of Hillary Clinton’s 2016 loss to Trump in Michigan. They said a phone bank on Saturday reached more than 1,100 people and recorded 668 who said yes.

As the pep rally at the union hall wrapped up, Pontiac-based community organizer Kermit Williams voiced concern with the “uncommitted” movement, even for participants who weren’t bent on objecting to Biden in November. “Once you start skipping over somebody, it becomes a habit,” he said. He also acknowledged that the Trump campaign is targeting Black men to build on gains or dissuade them from turning out, and he noted his own disappointment with the lack of any Black speakers at Friday’s Biden-Harris event.

A little later, over coffee, Democrat Haley Stevens said she wished more voters could see Biden the way she did, how he connects with people one on one. She said there is no way to force people to feel the effect of all the accomplishments Jacobs had listed, at a time when many people are exhausted by the news, tuning out the campaign, and hungering for community and connection as in-person activities move online.

One woman screamed and then the entire crowd erupted in cheers as Trump’s gleaming jet glided past the opening in the back of the hangar, a deep blue missile across the pale pink dusk sky. He was flying in from a stop-off in Philadelphia to unveil a line of gold-colored sneakers. A drumroll thundered over the loudspeakers, and the crowd broke into a Trump chant, but it was not time for his grand entrance yet — just the intro of James Brown and Luciano Pavarotti’s duet of “It’s a Man’s World.”

In one of his signature tactics, Trump spun the same accusations against him directly around on his opponents. Charged with trying to overturn the 2020 election, he called his prosecution a “threat to democracy.” Having named the critics he wants to punish in a second term, he described the array of civil and legal cases against him as all products of “bitterness and revenge and hatred.”


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 33

Headline: Alabama Supreme Court rules frozen embryos are children, imperiling IVF
Publish Date: Monday, February 19, 2024 at 10:06 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/19/alabama-supreme-court-embryos-children-ivf/?itid=lk_inline_manual_47 
Description: The ruling from Alabama’s top court could affect the standard of care for IVF patients as advocates warn of broader implications in the fight over abortion access.

Content: The first-of-its-kind ruling comes as at least 11 states have broadly defined personhood as beginning at fertilization in their state laws, according to reproductive rights group Pregnancy Justice, and states nationwide mull additional abortion and reproductive restrictions, elevating the issue ahead of the 2024 elections. Federally, the U. S. Supreme Court will decide this term whether to limit access to an abortion drug, the first time the high court will rule on the subject since it overturned Roe v. Wade in 2022.

The Alabama case focused on whether a patient who mistakenly dropped and destroyed other couples’ frozen embryos could be held liable in a wrongful-death lawsuit. The court ruled the patient could, writing that it had long held that “unborn children are ‘children’” and that that was also true for frozen embryos, affording the fertilized eggs the same protection as babies under the Wrongful Death of a Minor Act.

“It applies to all children, born and unborn, without limitation,” the court wrote. “It is not the role of this Court to craft a new limitation based on our own view of what is or is not wise public policy. That is especially true where, as here, the People of this State have adopted a Constitutional amendment directly aimed at stopping courts from excluding ‘unborn life’ from legal protection.”

Antiabortion organizers and lawmakers have tried in the past to make it illegal to destroy embryos, though no other state’s high court has ruled on the matter in this way. In Tennessee, for example, an antiabortion activist told Republican lawmakers to wait a few years before talking about IVF and how to regulate it, according to a recording obtained by ProPublica. Kansas, among other states, has considered legislation that would ban destroying embryos, though that bill died in committee. The push for defining personhood has even affected tax law: Georgia now recognizes an “unborn child” as a dependent after six weeks of pregnancy.

In Alabama, voters passed a ballot measure in 2018 that granted fetuses full personhood rights but did not mention frozen embryos. After the fall of Roe, a near-total abortion ban went into effect in the state. Alabama now accounts for nearly half of all criminal cases related to pregnancy across the country, according to a tally by Pregnancy Justice.

The court’s finding, they note, could have implications across the country for fertility treatments such as IVF — the medical procedure in which doctors extract eggs from ovaries and fertilize them with sperm outside the body, forming embryos that can subsequently be moved to the uterus — or even contraceptives.

“This is a natural extension of the march toward fetal personhood,” said Dana Sussman, deputy executive director of Pregnancy Justice. “You only need one state to be the first out of the gate, and then the next one will feel less radical. This is a cause of great concern for anyone that cares about people’s reproductive rights and abortion care.”

To give a patient the best chance at a pregnancy, Sussman said, multiple embryos are created in the hopes that a patient can try again if an attempt at a pregnancy fails. As a result, as many eggs as possible are often fertilized and kept frozen. After a patient becomes pregnant, what to do with the remaining embryos can be an agonizing choice.

The Alabama ruling could make that choice harder, as parents or clinics ponder whether disposing of the fertilized eggs could make them liable for punitive damages, advocates noted. It could also make health-care providers more reluctant to provide care and jeopardize the safety of embryos, as they might worry about inadvertently destroying an embryo, said Karla Torres, senior counsel at the Center for Reproductive Rights.

In an amicus brief filed by the Medical Association of the State of Alabama, the group also warned that the ruling could make pursuing IVF more expensive, or result in fertility clinics shutting down or moving out of state because of the increased risk of lawsuits.

“Human life cannot be wrongfully destroyed without incurring the wrath of a holy God, who views the destruction of His image as an affront to Himself,” Parker wrote. “Even before birth, all human beings bear the image of God, and their lives cannot be destroyed without effacing his glory.”

It was not clear from the ruling if the destruction of embryos at any point or for any purpose would be allowed. The justices noted that the plaintiffs had signed contracts in which they agreed that their embryos could be destroyed or donated to research if frozen for more than five years. But because the trial court did not consider those arguments, Alabama’s high court elected not to resolve them either.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 34

Headline: How octogenarians think Biden can win
Publish Date: Tuesday, February 20, 2024 at 10:00 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/elections/2024/02/19/biden-trump-age-seniors-michigan/ 
Description: One 85-year-old prescribes plenty of naps. An 81-year-old grandfather swears by hanging out with younger advisers — such as his grandchildren. And an 80-year-old says to ignore the haters.

Content: Accessibility statementSkip to main content

Naps, jokes and younger advisers: How octogenarians think Biden can winEllen James, Carol Townsend and Barry Johnson, voters in Michigan, at the Beacon Hill at Eastgate senior living complex in Grand Rapids. (Joshua Lott/The Washington Post)GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. — Hundreds of miles from a White House on defense about President Biden’s age, a small group of fellow octogenarians had some advice for the commander in chief: One 85-year-old prescribes plenty of naps. An 81-year-old grandfather swears by hanging out with younger advisers — such as his grandchildren. And an 80-year-old says to ignore the haters. Cut through the 2024 election noise. Get The Campaign Moment newsletter.“Eighty is the new 70,” declared semiretired, motorcycle-riding minister John Rozeboom, 81, who toted overflowing plastic bags of groceries in a Meijer parking lot. Rozeboom said he would prefer voting for Biden, 81, over Donald Trump, who he said “has lost his marbles.” “If Joe would just step up his pace a little bit when he walks around, he could fool people better,” said Rozeboom, suggesting Biden has a fixable image problem.As Biden seeks reelection as the oldest president in American history, his age has become a focal point this year, with polls showing majorities of voters in his party saying he is too old to be president and his verbal and physical stumbles under a constant spotlight. In pursuit of a second term, Biden is running against a likely general election opponent in Trump, 77, who has faced questions of his own about longevity and acuity, some voters in their age group are contemplating the demands of the job and how each would fare.While some mostly Democratic seniors in Kent County — a once reliable GOP-stronghold in a key swing state that has shifted left since Trump won in 2016 — reflected on their own experience with aging, they expressed both worries for Biden rooted in their own age-related troubles and hope that he could better adapt himself to the rigors of the job in the next four years.Elderly voters in Grand Rapids, Mich., shared their perspectives on the anticipated presidential nominees and their advanced age. (Video: The Washington Post)Perceptions among Americans over 65 are expected to be a major factor in this year’s election as they have turned out more than any other age group. Seniors have consistently favored Republicans and Trump won voters 65 and up by five points in 2020, according to exit polls.Some of Biden’s contemporaries in this state voiced anger at recent attacks on Biden over his age after this month’s special counsel report detailed concerns that Biden’s memory had lapsed.Gussie Farris, 85, a usually cheery Democratic organizer in Grand Rapids, was fuming after days of watching news coverage about the special counsel that she thought needlessly fixated on minor lapses in memory and what she saw as a juvenile throng of White House reporters shouting at the president during a news conference after the report was released.Farris slammed her slight hand on a veneer conference room table, telling a group of seniors at a planning meeting for the Grand Rapids-based Advocates for Senior Issues that they should take age-related critiques against Biden personally.“They are out there insulting us like we don’t know anything,” she said to nodding heads around the room. “I’m pissed off.”At the same time, she wondered why Biden’s younger aides couldn’t do more to show the president at work, from taking calls with foreign dignitaries to leading critical policy discussions. The White House has amped up its digital media strategy in recent years, increasingly showing the president engaging with social media personalities, while opting for fewer news conferences and sit-down interviews with mainstream outlets than his recent predecessors. A White House spokesman pointed to Biden’s most recent public engagements, including a  meeting with Jordan’s King Abdullah II and intimate interactions with voters.Why didn’t a staffer help control the unruly press commotion she saw on TV after Biden’s comments on the special counsel report, she wondered. What if Biden did more to play off the age-related questions with jokes, suggested Lody Zwarensteyn, a 76-year-old independent seated beside Farris, who said he intends to vote for Biden.Others suggested different solutions and added that they have felt like aging isn’t what it used to be, as the average life expectancy has gone up over time and it’s easier to age than ever before. Plus, they reasoned, presidents are well taken care of in ways others aren’t.“Unlike many of us who travel, when you’re president, you’re basically first class and can sleep,” 73-year-old Ginger Randall said.Even Taylor Swift probably naps sometimes, Zwarensteyn added.“Accommodations can be made,” Farris agreed. The 85-year-old said she’s found naps help her get more done during the day — and she suggested they might benefit Biden.About 4 in 10 adults 65 and older (41 percent) said that only Biden is too old for another term, higher than Americans overall, an ABC News/Ipsos poll found. Another 47 percent of those 65 and up said both Biden and Trump are too old for another term, and 3 percent said that just Trump is too old, according to the survey, which was conducted in the days after the special counsel report’s release.Americans as a whole have also tended to see age as a bigger problem for Biden than Trump. Fifty-nine percent of Americans said both Biden and Trump are too old for another term as president, while 27 percent said just Biden is too old and 3 percent said just Trump is too old, according to the poll.In the Beacon Hill retirement community tucked in a quiet East Grand Rapids suburb, 81-year-old Barry Johnson said it is important at his age to ask for assistance. He pointed to his friend Carol Townsend, 79, seated on a nearby couch in a common area and relayed a story of recently helping her flip her mattress when she couldn’t do it herself.Elderly voters in Grand Rapids, Mich., shared their perspectives on the best parts about being 80 years of age or older. (Video: The Washington Post)Whether it be furniture or running the country, when you’re older, you need to know when to ask for help, he said. Biden can, but Trump can’t, he added, saying he thinks the former president appears less willing to take in the input of others.“The really problematic combination is someone who is autocratic by nature getting older,” said Johnson, who added that he intends to vote for Biden. “What we all learn here is, when we get older we need to be willing to rely on other people. The ability to be collaborative, to listen to others, to learn from others, is more important the older you get.”Johnson, who has yet to retire even though two of his children have and jokes that most of his kids have received invitations to AARP, said he provides his decades of experience to his younger partners — and having co-workers from later generations has helped him.“In our daily lives, we want to pick a doctor who can do a good job,” Townsend said. “Having the ability to pick competent people in your Cabinet is one thing, and then to listen to them.”During recent public addresses, Biden has had some difficulties with names, at one point appearing to forget the name of Hamas. During a campaign speech in Las Vegas this month, Biden appeared to confuse France’s current president, Emmanuel Macron, and former president Francois Mitterrand, who died in 1996.In the special counsel report, Biden was cleared of any charges in connection with his handling of classified documents. But the report said Biden had “limited precision and recall,” specifically alleging Biden did not recall when his time as vice president began or ended or the date of his son’s death. Special counsel Robert K. Hur called Biden “a well-meaning, elderly man with a poor memory.”Hours after the report’s release, a defiant Biden slammed its commentary about his memory, telling reporters gathered at the White House that “I’m well meaning, and I’m an elderly man, and I know what the hell I’m doing.” But in the same televised appearance, he confused the president of Egypt with the president of Mexico, which the Republican opposition seized on.Trump has previously referred to running against former president Barack Obama in speeches although he never did. In a December speech in New Hampshire, he named his Republican opponent Nikki Haley when he was apparently referring to former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Trump has claimed he is intentional with such flubs.Elderly voters in Grand Rapids, Mich., shared their perspectives on the worst part about being 80 years of age or older. (Video: The Washington Post)Johnson, Townsend and others in the group said there were surely times they couldn’t remember names or information. But that had been the case when they were younger, too. Still, they acknowledged, sometimes it seems to happen more often than it used to.“Sometimes, it’s like ‘I’m 80,’” Ellen James said, puffing out her chest. “And other times, it’s like,” she said, shrinking, “'I’m 80.'”James’s Friday soap opera-watching schedule was punctured by the news of the special counsel report, and she grew agitated as she learned about the report’s commentary on Biden’s age. Those portions were abusive, she thought, and she didn’t think Biden should pay any mind to them.“He was found innocent of any misdoings, and that should be it,” she said.The weekend after the special counsel report’s release, aging was the topic of discussion among silver-haired, longtime Sunday regulars of the New Beginnings diner. In one booth, two friends who disagreed on much about politics found some alignment on Biden’s age.“Biden has a lot of experience over the years, but he’s too damn old,” said Dave Smoes, an 83-year-old Democrat who said he still intends to vote for Biden because he said Trump is a threat to democracy. “I can’t believe the Democratic Party didn’t come up with somebody different.”Two seats down, his 92-year-old friend Bill Stroh said he would be voting for Trump but wasn’t any more enthusiastic about it.“I’m so disappointed,” Stroh said. “I was hoping once before I croak I could vote for someone because I wanted them.”


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 35

Headline: Democrats keep bragging about the economy. But here’s the problem.
Publish Date: Tuesday, February 20, 2024 at 11:30 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2024/02/20/biden-economy-campaign-message-better/ 
Description: Describing current economic conditions in glowing terms might be a good short-term political strategy, but it weakens the case for deeper changes.

Content: President Biden and other top Democratic officials keep reeling off statistics about low unemployment, rising wages, declining inflation, better-paying jobs for Americans without college degrees and a shrinking of the gaps in employment and wages between White and Black Americans. They are doing that for two reasons. First and most important, they are highlighting real, positive developments. Many Americans have more money and better jobs than before. That’s worth celebrating.

Second, they are trying to boost their party electorally. Officials in both parties and many journalists believe that economic conditions play a major role in election results. In reality, the truism “It’s the economy, stupid” is simplistic and at times outright wrong. But Biden’s dismal approval ratings would probably be even lower if prices were increasing as much as they were two years ago.

And though the overwhelming majority of American adults have a steady income and can pay for food, even those who are better off right now live in a state of perpetual uncertainty, as political organizer Astra Taylor described in her recent book “The Age of Insecurity.” They rightly fear that they are a layoff or illness away from financial peril.

And work isn’t just about a paycheck. Jobs provide purpose and community. But that can be ripped away instantly in a country where laws make it easy to fire people and the economic structure creates incentives for companies to dismiss hundreds or thousands of workers at a time to raise their stock prices.

“When we examine society through the lens of insecurity, which affects everyone, as opposed to inequality, which emphasizes two opposing extremes, we can see the degree to which unnecessary suffering is widespread even among those who appear to be ‘winning’ according to the logic of the capitalist game,” Taylor writes.

I read the data about strong job growth. But it’s hard for me to feel positive about the U. S. economy while journalists and tech workers get laid off in droves; teachers and professors quit their jobs, frustrated with Republican politicians undermining their work;  and tens of thousands of federal workers face dismissals by Donald Trump if he wins the election. And even as the economy is insecure for so many people, billionaires not only have more money than any human would ever need but also turn that wealth into power, buying social media platforms and increasing the racist content on them, forcing out presidents of universities and funding campaigns against politicians who try to regulate their businesses.

Most Americans are better off economically compared with 2010 (after the Great Recessions) and perhaps even compared with 1999 or 2018 (previous times of low unemployment). Americans have more money per capita than the overwhelming majority of people around the world do. But our system of hyper-capitalism still shouldn’t be described as good or strong, because it leaves so many people either struggling or very nervous about their future.

A presidential election year, when Americans are focused more than usual on politics, is an ideal time to highlight the inadequacies of the U. S. economic system and call for structural changes. My worry is that even very left-wing people who usually raise these issues will instead spend this year only cheerleading about current economic conditions, to help Biden defeat Trump.

I understand that impulse. The election of Trump would be terrible. But I’m not sure that crowing about the economy is a great electoral strategy. Polls suggest a huge chunk of Democrats and independents (so people who aren’t reflexively opposed to Biden) are skeptical they are living in boom times, despite the president’s supporters constantly telling them that they are. Voters tend to think about the future, so laying out new proposals would probably be more effective for Democrats politically than reeling off bills passed two or three years ago.

But my real concern is how this kind of messaging affects policy. People on the left need to stop validating the notions that a strong economy is simply one with low unemployment and high job growth and that a good president on economic issues is one who facilitates those conditions. Unemployment and inflation were very low when Trump was president. I am not looking for the candidate who can best manage a high-inequality, high-insecurity country.

Biden is a superior candidate to Trump not because of his economic competence but because of his economic values: aligning with unions, criticizing corporations when they try to rip off ordinary Americans, supporting the creation of clean-energy jobs, trying to expand America’s meager safety net with policies such as a child tax credit.

It’s not as if Biden and other Democrats never discuss those values. But the party’s message is too heavily weighted toward celebrating current conditions, with comparably little focus on the structural weaknesses of the U. S. economy and how Democrats would address them in the future. If Biden is reelected, it will be harder to push for higher taxes on the wealthy, more affordable higher education, limits on corporate power, increased labor and union rights, and other much-needed policies if Democrats have spent 2024 saying everything is going spectacularly in the United States economically.

Alas, I suspect Democrats will stick with their approach. Many party officials love to brand Democrats as more mature and sober than Republicans, as opposed to emphasizing the deep policy differences between the two parties. And some Democratic leaders are supportive of the current economic structure of the country and aren’t that interested in changing much anyway.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 36

Headline: Despite N.Y. special election win, the border still dogs Biden
Publish Date: Tuesday, February 20, 2024 at 04:21 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/20/despite-ny-special-election-win-border-still-dogs-biden/ 
Description: There isn’t much evidence that public opinion has shifted on who’s to blame for immigration woes.

Content: Last week, voters in the New York special election delivered Democrats some hope that the border crisis wouldn’t necessarily be President Biden’s and the party’s undoing in 2024. Despite the GOP’s relentless focus on the issue, Rep.-elect Tom Suozzi (D-N.Y.) won relatively easily in a competitive district by playing up his border security credentials. That his win came shortly after Senate Republicans killed a bipartisan border deal led some to wager the game had changed.

A new Monmouth University poll on Tuesday showed Biden’s approval rating on immigration remains in historically bad territory — and is virtually unchanged since before the Senate ramped up immigration talks in December.

Registered voters disapprove of him 71 percent to 26 percent on the issue, compared with 69-26 in December. Independents today disapprove 74-21, and only a slight majority of Biden’s fellow Democrats (54 percent) approve.

Although the deal earned significant support among Senate Republicans, who called it a very conservative one right before their party killed it (and with Donald Trump playing no small part in that), the poll showed blame about evenly split between the parties — with Biden receiving the most. While about 30 percent of registered voters blamed congressional Democrats, congressional Republicans and Trump “a great deal,” 35 percent blamed Biden that much.

As concerning for Democrats was how much Americans favored Trump on the issue in that poll. Despite Trump’s having urged Republicans to oppose the border deal, Americans said they trusted him more than Biden on immigration and the border by 18 points, 44-26.

That gap is smaller than it was in an NBC News poll early this month, but it’s similar to earlier polling from Marquette University Law School in November and Bloomberg polling of swing states last month. It’s bigger than the nine-point gap that a USA Today/Suffolk University national poll showed in October.

The gap is also notably more pronounced than the usual gap between congressional Democrats and Republicans. ABC/Ipsos polling since mid-2022 has asked people to choose between the parties on the issue, and Republicans have led by between three and 12 points.

As Republicans were killing the immigration deal two weeks ago, Biden said he would spend the next nine months reminding voters about that fact.

“Every day between now and November, the American people are going to know the only reason the border is not secure is Donald Trump and his MAGA Republican friends,” Biden said.

There is a lot of time to drive that message, and perhaps voters haven’t tuned into the issue like they did in New York, where immigration wasn’t as significant a liability for Suozzi as it is nationally. (A late poll showed voters there preferred the Republican nominee on border issues by just nine points.)

But making that case could be more difficult for Biden than it was for Suozzi. Even with the deal and its collapse in the news plenty in recent weeks — and the fact that Republicans transparently killed it, with their own colleagues suggesting they did so for political (read: Trump) reasons rather than principled ones — it doesn’t appear to be something voters are laying at the GOP’s feet.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 37

Headline: Ahead of South Carolina GOP primary, Haley vows to continue running
Publish Date: Tuesday, February 20, 2024 at 05:45 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/20/haley-trump-south-carolina-primary/ 
Description: “We’re going to keep on going,” the Republican presidential candidate said Tuesday. “I will take the bruises. I will take the cuts. This is going to be messy.”

Content: GREENVILLE, S. C. — Nikki Haley struck a defiant tone Tuesday as she promised not to leave the Republican primary contest soon and escalated her attacks  on front-runner Donald Trump.Despite middling polling numbers and ahead of an expected loss in her home state of South Carolina this weekend, the state’s former governor said she is “far” from dropping out of the race, and she vowed to stay in it until at least after Super Tuesday, when 15 states and one U.S. territory vote on March 5.

Haley came in third in Iowa, second in New Hampshire and finished an embarrassing second to the “none of these candidates” ballot option in a Nevada primary in which Trump didn’t compete. Public polling shows her losing badly to Trump in South Carolina, despite her popularity as governor there. Trump leads Haley among likely Republican primary voters in the state by 63 percent to 35 percent, according to a new Suffolk University-USA Today poll released Tuesday.

In her Tuesday remarks — in which she compared herself to David fighting Goliath — Haley also turned to Republicans who have lined up behind Trump despite disavowing him behind closed doors. She blamed this on a “herd mentality,” arguing that many of her Republican colleagues have surrendered to it.

“Many of the same politicians who now publicly embrace Trump privately dread him,” she said. “They know what a disaster he’s been and will continue to be for our party. They’re just too afraid to say it out loud.”

“I have no fear of Trump’s retribution,” she said. “I’m not looking for anything from him.” Haley’s promise to remain in the race is consistent with her recent remarks on the campaign trail. She nevertheless has been incessantly questioned about her intent to stay the course.

“We’re going to keep on going,” she said Tuesday. “I will take the bruises. I will take the cuts. This is going to be messy, and I’ll take the hurt because I believe nothing good comes easy. Sometimes we have to feel the pain to appreciate the blessing.”

After South Carolina, Haley has events planned in Michigan — the next state to vote — and the Super Tuesday contests of Minnesota, Colorado, Utah, Virginia, Washington, D. C., North Carolina and Massachusetts. After Tuesday’s event, her campaign announced a new ad buy that will launch in Michigan on Wednesday morning.

Earlier in the primary process, Haley said she would support Trump if he ultimately becomes the Republican presidential nominee. On Sunday, during an interview with ABC News’s “This Week,” she would not say if that is still the case, despite being repeatedly pressed by host Jonathan Karl. Instead, Haley said she is running against Trump because she believes he should not be president again.

“He wants an election with no opponent,” she said. “But that’s not what voters are saying. Despite being a de facto incumbent, Donald Trump lost 49 percent of the vote in Iowa. In New Hampshire, Trump lost 46 percent of the vote. That’s not good. We’re talking about almost half our voters.”

“People have a right to have their voices heard, and they deserve a real choice, not a Soviet-style election where there’s only one candidate and he gets 99 percent of the vote,” Haley said. “We don’t anoint kings in this country — we have elections. And Donald Trump, of all people, should know we don’t rig elections.”

The former U. N. ambassador then set her sights on the other major candidate running for the White House — President Biden. Throughout her entire campaign, Haley has argued that both Trump and Biden are “too old” to be president, an argument she repeated Tuesday.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 38

Headline: Ahead of South Carolina GOP primary, Haley vows to continue running
Publish Date: Tuesday, February 20, 2024 at 05:45 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/20/haley-trump-south-carolina-primary/?itid=lk_inline_manual_9 
Description: “We’re going to keep on going,” the Republican presidential candidate said Tuesday. “I will take the bruises. I will take the cuts. This is going to be messy.”

Content: GREENVILLE, S. C. — Nikki Haley struck a defiant tone Tuesday as she promised not to leave the Republican primary contest soon and escalated her attacks  on front-runner Donald Trump.Despite middling polling numbers and ahead of an expected loss in her home state of South Carolina this weekend, the state’s former governor said she is “far” from dropping out of the race, and she vowed to stay in it until at least after Super Tuesday, when 15 states and one U.S. territory vote on March 5.

Haley came in third in Iowa, second in New Hampshire and finished an embarrassing second to the “none of these candidates” ballot option in a Nevada primary in which Trump didn’t compete. Public polling shows her losing badly to Trump in South Carolina, despite her popularity as governor there. Trump leads Haley among likely Republican primary voters in the state by 63 percent to 35 percent, according to a new Suffolk University-USA Today poll released Tuesday.

In her Tuesday remarks — in which she compared herself to David fighting Goliath — Haley also turned to Republicans who have lined up behind Trump despite disavowing him behind closed doors. She blamed this on a “herd mentality,” arguing that many of her Republican colleagues have surrendered to it.

“Many of the same politicians who now publicly embrace Trump privately dread him,” she said. “They know what a disaster he’s been and will continue to be for our party. They’re just too afraid to say it out loud.”

“I have no fear of Trump’s retribution,” she said. “I’m not looking for anything from him.” Haley’s promise to remain in the race is consistent with her recent remarks on the campaign trail. She nevertheless has been incessantly questioned about her intent to stay the course.

“We’re going to keep on going,” she said Tuesday. “I will take the bruises. I will take the cuts. This is going to be messy, and I’ll take the hurt because I believe nothing good comes easy. Sometimes we have to feel the pain to appreciate the blessing.”

After South Carolina, Haley has events planned in Michigan — the next state to vote — and the Super Tuesday contests of Minnesota, Colorado, Utah, Virginia, Washington, D. C., North Carolina and Massachusetts. After Tuesday’s event, her campaign announced a new ad buy that will launch in Michigan on Wednesday morning.

Earlier in the primary process, Haley said she would support Trump if he ultimately becomes the Republican presidential nominee. On Sunday, during an interview with ABC News’s “This Week,” she would not say if that is still the case, despite being repeatedly pressed by host Jonathan Karl. Instead, Haley said she is running against Trump because she believes he should not be president again.

“He wants an election with no opponent,” she said. “But that’s not what voters are saying. Despite being a de facto incumbent, Donald Trump lost 49 percent of the vote in Iowa. In New Hampshire, Trump lost 46 percent of the vote. That’s not good. We’re talking about almost half our voters.”

“People have a right to have their voices heard, and they deserve a real choice, not a Soviet-style election where there’s only one candidate and he gets 99 percent of the vote,” Haley said. “We don’t anoint kings in this country — we have elections. And Donald Trump, of all people, should know we don’t rig elections.”

The former U. N. ambassador then set her sights on the other major candidate running for the White House — President Biden. Throughout her entire campaign, Haley has argued that both Trump and Biden are “too old” to be president, an argument she repeated Tuesday.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 39

Headline: Trump’s opponents view him (slightly) less negatively than they used to
Publish Date: Tuesday, February 20, 2024 at 07:09 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/20/trump-unfavorable-polling-biden-2024/ 
Description: Democrats and Black Americans are less likely to view former president Donald Trump unfavorably than they were previously.

Content: It is very easy to over-interpret political events. At the risk of going too far in the other direction, we can summarize the 2020 presidential election succinctly: It was a measure of how Americans felt about Donald Trump. Many Republicans and independents loved him and wanted him to have a second term in office. Many Democrats and independents hated him and didn’t. The latter group cast the most votes.

This year is shaping up to feature the same dynamic. Polling earlier this month indicated that the intent to vote for Trump is driven heavily by support for him, while the intent to vote for President Biden is driven heavily by … opposition to Trump.

In other words, Biden’s chances against Trump (assuming a 2020 rematch, which seems very probable) are likely to depend heavily on how Americans feel about Trump. Not great news for the president, given that, particularly in recent months, polling shows that Americans feel much less hostile to the man who preceded him.

YouGov and its partner The Economist have asked Americans how they feel about Trump for years now. The polling firm provided The Washington Post with monthly averages of views of Trump from his first month in office, to see how those views have shifted over time.

The month during which Trump had the highest unfavorable ratings (measured as the combination of “very” and “somewhat” unfavorable opinions) was not during his presidency. Instead, it came in July 2023, amid the indictments that were obtained against Trump last year.

That month marked the high point in unfavorability among Democrats and independents, too. But among Republicans, the high point came in December 2022 — after the 2022 midterms and as Trump was being blamed for his party’s poor performance in Senate races.

The post-presidency blip seen in 2023 among Democrats and Black Americans has so far been just that: a blip. If we overlay the average unfavorability that Trump saw during his presidency with the trend that extends through this month, we see that Democrats and Black Americans now view Trump less unfavorably than they did when he was president. Republicans and independents view him more unfavorably.

It’s also very important to note that views of Trump shifted before the January 2021 mark — that is, during the 2020 election year. This probably in part reflected how tumultuous that year was. But it was certainly also in part a hardening of opinion as Trump was seeking a second term in office.

Most of the negative views of Trump fall into the “very unfavorable” category. That is, it’s not just that most Americans say they view him unfavorably (though the percentage is under 50 percent for the first time since January 2017). It’s that most of those who view him unfavorably view him very unfavorably. If we overlay the “very unfavorable” percentage on our charts, you can see how that holds true in nearly every group.

There are some important considerations to draw from that data, though. The first is that the percentage of Americans who view Trump very unfavorably is lower than it had been since early in his presidency. The second is that, among Democrats, it is six percentage points lower than it was on average from 2017 through 2020.

It’s hard to see on the chart above, but there’s other good news for Trump. Among Republicans who view Trump unfavorably, the percentage that view him very unfavorably is down since he left office. In other words, Republicans who don’t like Trump feel less strongly about him than they used to. This is how opinions generally change; it’s not a flip from dislike to like but, instead, from dislike to dislike less.

The emerging presidential race is likely to reshape these numbers, seeing Trump’s unfavorability increase over the next nine months. In 2020, though, those changes were modest: an increase of one point overall and about four points among Democrats. If we assume the same increase in unfavorability from now to November that was seen four years ago, fewer Democrats will have unfavorable views of Trump than did on average from 2017 to 2020 (by nearly three points), and negative views of Trump among Democrats will be nearly 10 points lower than they were in 2020.

The good news for Biden is those numbers for independents, which are about where they were in November 2020. That polling from earlier this month showing that views of the election were still framed around views of Trump? The group most likely to say their pro-Biden vote was really an anti-Trump one were political independents.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 40

Headline: Trump compares death of Putin critic Navalny to his legal troubles
Publish Date: Tuesday, February 20, 2024 at 10:28 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/elections/2024/02/20/trump-comments-navalny-death-russia-putin/ 
Description: The episode has renewed debate about Trump’s coziness with Russia and drawn bipartisan criticism as he remains the Republican presidential front-runner.

Content: Donald Trump and some of his allies continue to compare his legal problems to the plight of Alexei Navalny, while the former president has yet to condemn the Friday death of the imprisoned Russian dissident who was President Vladimir Putin’s strongest critic. Cut through the 2024 election noise. Get The Campaign Moment newsletter.“It’s a form of Navalny,” Trump said a Fox News town hall on Tuesday, responding to a question from Laura Ingraham about the $355 million fine against his businesses after a New York civil trial. “It’s happening in our country too.”

“We are turning into a communist country in many ways,” Trump continued. “I got indicted four times, I have eight or nine trials. All because of the fact that I’m in, you know this, all because of the fact that I’m in politics. They indicted me.”

Navalny, a prominent political dissident, died in a Russian prison after surviving a near-fatal poisoning in 2020. Trump’s televised comments on Tuesday elaborated on social media posts likening his prosecution in four separate cases to Navalny’s death, saying it “made me more and more aware of what is happening in” the United States.

Trump’s handling of the situation served as a reminder of the soft rhetoric he’s long employed toward Russia and drew bipartisan criticism as he prepares for an expected general-election rematch against President Biden. His defenders — including potential running mates — have sidestepped questions about his response and leaned into the comparison in some cases.

“Watch the Biden Administration speak out against Putin and his jailing of his leading political opponent while Democrats in four different jurisdictions try to turn President Trump into an American Navalny,” former House speaker Newt Gingrich said Friday on X, formerly Twitter. “The hypocrisy and corruption of the left is astonishing.”

In Washington, the fallout from Navalny’s death is not receding. The White House announced that it will unveil a “major sanctions package” aimed at Russia on Friday in response to the death, which happened at an Arctic penal colony where Navalny was serving a 19-year sentence.

Trump has long fueled concerns that he is too cozy with Putin, but the latest episode is part of an especially stark chapter. Earlier this month, he alarmed U. S. allies anew after saying he would encourage Russia to invade a NATO country if it were not spending enough on defense.

Those comments — as well as Trump’s handling of Navalny’s death — have given his last serious presidential primary rival, Nikki Haley, a new opening to criticize Trump and highlight her foreign policy experience as his onetime U. N. ambassador. Polls show Haley trailing Trump by wide margins ahead of the Saturday primary in South Carolina, her home state.

“The only comment [Trump is] going to make about Navalny is not hitting Putin for murdering him, not praising Navalny for fighting the corruption that was happening in Russia, but instead he’s going to compare himself to Navalny and the victim that he is in his court cases?” Haley said in a Fox News interview Tuesday. “He is so distracted, he is so focused on himself, and America can’t go through this.”

Trump’s comparisons come as he faces 91 counts tied to four criminal indictments during his White House comeback campaign. In a separate civil case in New York, a judge ordered him Friday to pay more than $350 million in penalties for using “blatantly false financial data” on financial statements.

Republicans who have been discussed as possible running mates for Trump have avoided criticizing him over his handling of Navalny’s death. In a Sunday interview on CNN — before Trump said anything about the death — Sen. Tim Scott (S. C.) called Putin a “murderous dictator” but declined to say whether Trump should speak out.

Another potential running mate, Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-N. Y.), took a similar tack in a statement given to a local news outlet Monday. A spokesperson for the chairwoman of the House Republican Conference said Stefanik had “one of the toughest records” on Russia and looked forward to returning to the “peace through strength policies of President Trump.”

“Everything from our military presence with bases and nuclear subs and everything we’ve grown up with here was in opposition to Russia,” Dawson said. “There isn’t any warm and fuzzy feelings in South Carolina for anyone who’s wrapping their arms around [Russia].”

Alex Conant, an unaffiliated Republican strategist, said global affairs are a vulnerability for Trump in the primary race, but he also acknowledged that the issue has done little to diminish the former president’s front-runner status.

“It didn’t cost him in 2016, and so far it hasn’t cost him in 2024,” Conant said. “He’s going to win the nomination despite his weak rhetoric on Russia, not because of it.”


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 41

Headline: There’s an obvious reason Biden isn’t dropping out of a tied race
Publish Date: Tuesday, February 20, 2024 at 10:45 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/20/trump-biden-polling-elelction/ 
Description: It is February — and a lot can and will change over the next eight-plus months.

Content: Over the past two presidential elections, the winning candidates learned lessons that it seems fair to assume might have colored the way they look at politics. The lesson Donald Trump might have taken away from 2016 is that his assessment that polling was undercounting his support was correct. Joe Biden might have extracted a similar lesson four years later, after a surprisingly poor performance in the first few nominating contests: The result that matters is the one in November.

It’s useful to remember 2020 when considering Biden’s path toward his reelection bid this year. Then, he and his staff took a very even-keeled approach to the nomination and the general election, watching allies and supporters get spun up into a sense of crisis while they simply pressed forward. To some extent, Biden’s team got lucky in the way any candidate might, but either way, the approach worked. Biden won.

So you can understand why Biden’s team might similarly be waiting out this moment of consternation among his allies and other observers. The report on his possession of classified documents from special counsel Robert Hur triggered a new round of analysis about Biden’s age and how perceptions of his age would affect the general election and so on. There has been no shortage of musing about how, hey, maybe Biden could just step aside? Maybe the Democrats could just pretend that the past 10 months or so didn’t happen and start some truncated sort of delegate-assigning process right now with a new slate of candidates? Maybe this could be Trump-vs.-Someone-Else after all?

Prompting the expected response from Biden’s team: no real response at all. Yes, you get the inside-baseball stories about how the State of the Union address will be a reset, but there’s no sign Biden won’t be the Democrat on the ballot in November. Just like Biden kept his head down until the South Carolina primary in 2020 and so on.

First of all, the race remains close. Yes, four years ago, Biden consistently led in national polling at this point and, yes, Democrats needed to win the national vote by a healthy margin to keep the electoral college close in 2016 and 2020. That’s all true. But it is not the case that Biden is obviously losing any of the states he won in 2020. In part, this is because there aren’t a lot of polls yet and, in part, this is because polling this far out isn’t that useful.

Consider polling from March of each presidential year since 1968. Or, to be more accurate, let’s consider the polling averages compiled by 538, a useful assessment of the state of polling in each of those contests. In some cases, we have state-level averages; in some, we don’t. But if we look at the average March two-party margin in states (that is, the difference in support for the Republican and Democrat) and compare it with the actual margin in November, we see that, across about 300 data points, the average difference is seven percentage points. Yes, there’s correlation: States that Republicans win tend to have the Republican up in March. But that’s still a big difference.

Polls aren’t designed to predict the results of a contest nine months in the future. They’re not even designed to predict the results of a close contest the next day. People are often far too willing to assume that a poll showing a candidate up by two points was “wrong” if the candidate loses by one point — as though the pollsters didn’t tell people about the margin of error.

The race isn’t actually set. That’s not to say that Nikki Haley will be the Republican nominee instead of Trump; despite the Haley campaign’s insistence that she might be — and some of the media’s willingness to entertain that idea for the sake of keeping people interested — it will take something other than standard campaign machinations for that to occur. Instead, saying the race isn’t set means that Americans aren’t tuned into the idea that Trump and Biden will once again be facing off in November and/or aren’t paying attention to the race just yet. Democrats’ negative views of Trump have softened in recent months. Will that still be the case after five months of relentless campaign ads?

Then, of course, there’s the issue of a theoretical replacement. The natural choice would be Vice President Harris, the person Biden himself selected as a successor. Would subjecting her to a primary fight, however short, be better for the party’s chances than keeping Biden in place? Would replacing her? Is there a scenario in which the party dukes it out until and through the convention that doesn’t result in a weaker nominee with less time to gain ground against Trump? All of that aside, there is one Democrat in the mix who has beaten Trump in a national election previously: Joe Biden, the likely nominee.

Things can also get worse for Biden, of course. Whether some manifestation of his age is one of those things, though, is hard to say. Perceptions of Biden’s age are heavily baked into the state of the race at the moment. It might be the case that there are people who might be persuaded not to vote for Biden by some seemingly age-related mistake between now and November, but it seems fair to assume that a lot of those who express concern about his age aren’t likely to change their vote anyway. Particularly since this year, like 2020, is shaping up to be a referendum not on Biden but on Trump.

Biden may well lose in November. This learned, perhaps performative sanguinity may not pay off the way it did four years ago. But it seems about as fair to think it might as to assume that it won’t. And that, in a nutshell, is why there’s little reason to think that Biden won’t be the Democratic nominee.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 42

Headline: Trump and Haley burned through cash in January, new reports show
Publish Date: Wednesday, February 21, 2024 at 05:03 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/21/trump-haley-fundraising-january/ 
Description: Major donors also stepped in to boost Haley’s quixotic effort — but the super PAC supporting her did not have much left in reserves.

Content: On a day when Nikki Haley vowed to stay in the Republican presidential race regardless of the outcome in Saturday’s South Carolina primary, the 2024 presidential campaigns and their allied committees filed reports to the Federal Election Commission showing what they raised through the end of January. Donald Trump’s campaign and the leadership PAC that has been shouldering his legal bills burned through cash in January as he progressed toward the Republican presidential nomination. Facing those burdens, Trump ended the month with less cash on hand in his campaign account than President Biden. Major donors stepped in to boost Haley’s quixotic effort — but the super PAC supporting her did not have much left in reserves at the end of January. Here are some of the takeaways from the new reports:

Trump’s campaign and his allied leadership PAC spent heavily in January as he fought off his rivals for the Republican nomination in Iowa and New Hampshire while dealing with his burgeoning legal bills as he faces multiple lawsuits and 91 felony charges across four criminal cases.

The Trump campaign had $30 million in cash on hand at the end of January. He raised almost $9 million and spent $11.4 million during that month. Trump’s Save America leadership PAC — which he has been using to pay many of his own legal bills, as well as those of some of his aides and associates — had only about $6 million in cash on hand at the end of January. (When raising dollars through his joint fundraising committee, 90 cents of each dollar donated is diverted to his campaign committee and 10 cents is diverted to the Save America leadership PAC).

The main super PAC bolstering Trump’s candidacy, MAGA Inc., had $19.7 million in cash on hand at the end of the filing period. The biggest donor to Trump’s super PAC in January was once again transportation executive Timothy Mellon, who donated another $5 million to the group. Geoffrey Palmer, a real estate developer who has hosted fundraisers for Trump in Beverly Hills, gave $1 million to the super PAC.

The Biden campaign said it raised more than $42 million in January across both the campaign and its joint fundraising committees, which do not have to file reports with the Federal Election Commission until April. Across all its committees, the campaign said it has $130 million in cash on hand.

Biden’s campaign account boasted a significant cash advantage over Trump’s at the end of the month — with the president’s campaign committee reporting nearly $56 million in cash on hand compared to Trump’s nearly $30.5 million. But those figures do not represent the full picture, because both campaigns are raising money through joint fundraising committees that do not have to file their reports until April.

Biden aides said January was its strongest grass-roots fundraising month since the president launched his reelection campaign in April. Campaign manager Julie Chavez Rodriguez said in a statement that January’s fundraising haul was “driven by a powerhouse grassroots fundraising program that continues to grow month by month” and that the tally was “an indisputable show of strength to start the election year.” She pointed to the Democratic cohesion in fundraising compared with the divisions within the Republican Party as Trump and Haley continue to fight for the nomination and as Trump grapples with his legal bills.

TJ Ducklo, a spokesman for the campaign, said in a statement that the haul would go toward reaching the voters who will decide the general election: “That’s reason number 355 million that we are confident President Biden and Vice President Harris will win this November,” he said, alluding to the $355 million in penalties that a New York judge ordered Trump to pay after finding that he and others had carried out a years-long scheme to use “blatantly false financial data” to borrow money at lower rates.

Haley said Tuesday that she has no plans of exiting the presidential race even if Trump defeats her by a wide margin in South Carolina this weekend, as most polls suggest he will. Both small-dollar donors to her campaign as well as big-check writers to her super PAC have allowed her to keep going in the Republican race as she has taken an increasingly defiant tone toward Trump and warned that his unpredictable legal troubles could hamper his efforts to defeat Biden in November.

Haley’s campaign raised more than $11.5 million during the first month of the year — spending more than $13 million over the same period — and had nearly $13 million in cash on hand at the end of the month. SFA Fund Inc., the super PAC allied with her campaign, continued to show a high burn rate, spending nearly $13.7 million in January and ending the month with about $2 million in cash on hand.

For much of last year, many major donors remained on the sidelines unconvinced that any Republican candidate could prevent Trump from getting the Republican presidential nomination. But some of the biggest Republican donors showed up on the end-of-year report filed by SFA Fund Inc. and continued to give generously to Haley in January as she competed in the early contests in Iowa and New Hampshire.

The committee raised more than $11.5 million during January but spent more than $10.8 million during the same period. The committee’s fundraising has been weak at a time when Trump has dominated small-dollar fundraising and in the midst of a competitive primary where low-dollar donors are far more excited to give to their preferred candidate. Some Trump loyalists and grass-roots activists have also been vocal about their dissatisfaction with RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel, despite her fealty to Trump.

As McDaniel prepares to step down as RNC chair, her advisers have touted her fundraising prowess over the course of her nearly eight-year tenure — when they said she helped raise more than $1.5 billion for the organization. Earlier this month, Trump released a statement saying he hoped to see Michael Whatley, the chair of the North Carolina GOP, lead the RNC as chair and his daughter-in-law, Lara Trump, step in as co-chair after McDaniel steps down.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 43

Headline: Trump and Haley burned through cash in January, new reports show
Publish Date: Wednesday, February 21, 2024 at 05:03 AM
URL: http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/21/trump-haley-fundraising-january/?itid=co_election2024_2 
Description: Major donors also stepped in to boost Haley’s quixotic effort — but the super PAC supporting her did not have much left in reserves.

Content: On a day when Nikki Haley vowed to stay in the Republican presidential race regardless of the outcome in Saturday’s South Carolina primary, the 2024 presidential campaigns and their allied committees filed reports to the Federal Election Commission showing what they raised through the end of January. Donald Trump’s campaign and the leadership PAC that has been shouldering his legal bills burned through cash in January as he progressed toward the Republican presidential nomination. Facing those burdens, Trump ended the month with less cash on hand in his campaign account than President Biden. Major donors stepped in to boost Haley’s quixotic effort — but the super PAC supporting her did not have much left in reserves at the end of January. Here are some of the takeaways from the new reports:

Trump’s campaign and his allied leadership PAC spent heavily in January as he fought off his rivals for the Republican nomination in Iowa and New Hampshire while dealing with his burgeoning legal bills as he faces multiple lawsuits and 91 felony charges across four criminal cases.

The Trump campaign had $30 million in cash on hand at the end of January. He raised almost $9 million and spent $11.4 million during that month. Trump’s Save America leadership PAC — which he has been using to pay many of his own legal bills, as well as those of some of his aides and associates — had only about $6 million in cash on hand at the end of January. (When raising dollars through his joint fundraising committee, 90 cents of each dollar donated is diverted to his campaign committee and 10 cents is diverted to the Save America leadership PAC).

The main super PAC bolstering Trump’s candidacy, MAGA Inc., had $19.7 million in cash on hand at the end of the filing period. The biggest donor to Trump’s super PAC in January was once again transportation executive Timothy Mellon, who donated another $5 million to the group. Geoffrey Palmer, a real estate developer who has hosted fundraisers for Trump in Beverly Hills, gave $1 million to the super PAC.

The Biden campaign said it raised more than $42 million in January across both the campaign and its joint fundraising committees, which do not have to file reports with the Federal Election Commission until April. Across all its committees, the campaign said it has $130 million in cash on hand.

Biden’s campaign account boasted a significant cash advantage over Trump’s at the end of the month — with the president’s campaign committee reporting nearly $56 million in cash on hand compared to Trump’s nearly $30.5 million. But those figures do not represent the full picture, because both campaigns are raising money through joint fundraising committees that do not have to file their reports until April.

Biden aides said January was its strongest grass-roots fundraising month since the president launched his reelection campaign in April. Campaign manager Julie Chavez Rodriguez said in a statement that January’s fundraising haul was “driven by a powerhouse grassroots fundraising program that continues to grow month by month” and that the tally was “an indisputable show of strength to start the election year.” She pointed to the Democratic cohesion in fundraising compared with the divisions within the Republican Party as Trump and Haley continue to fight for the nomination and as Trump grapples with his legal bills.

TJ Ducklo, a spokesman for the campaign, said in a statement that the haul would go toward reaching the voters who will decide the general election: “That’s reason number 355 million that we are confident President Biden and Vice President Harris will win this November,” he said, alluding to the $355 million in penalties that a New York judge ordered Trump to pay after finding that he and others had carried out a years-long scheme to use “blatantly false financial data” to borrow money at lower rates.

Haley said Tuesday that she has no plans of exiting the presidential race even if Trump defeats her by a wide margin in South Carolina this weekend, as most polls suggest he will. Both small-dollar donors to her campaign as well as big-check writers to her super PAC have allowed her to keep going in the Republican race as she has taken an increasingly defiant tone toward Trump and warned that his unpredictable legal troubles could hamper his efforts to defeat Biden in November.

Haley’s campaign raised more than $11.5 million during the first month of the year — spending more than $13 million over the same period — and had nearly $13 million in cash on hand at the end of the month. SFA Fund Inc., the super PAC allied with her campaign, continued to show a high burn rate, spending nearly $13.7 million in January and ending the month with about $2 million in cash on hand.

For much of last year, many major donors remained on the sidelines unconvinced that any Republican candidate could prevent Trump from getting the Republican presidential nomination. But some of the biggest Republican donors showed up on the end-of-year report filed by SFA Fund Inc. and continued to give generously to Haley in January as she competed in the early contests in Iowa and New Hampshire.

The committee raised more than $11.5 million during January but spent more than $10.8 million during the same period. The committee’s fundraising has been weak at a time when Trump has dominated small-dollar fundraising and in the midst of a competitive primary where low-dollar donors are far more excited to give to their preferred candidate. Some Trump loyalists and grass-roots activists have also been vocal about their dissatisfaction with RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel, despite her fealty to Trump.

As McDaniel prepares to step down as RNC chair, her advisers have touted her fundraising prowess over the course of her nearly eight-year tenure — when they said she helped raise more than $1.5 billion for the organization. Earlier this month, Trump released a statement saying he hoped to see Michael Whatley, the chair of the North Carolina GOP, lead the RNC as chair and his daughter-in-law, Lara Trump, step in as co-chair after McDaniel steps down.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 44

Headline: Teamsters give GOP first major donation in years with $45,000 to RNC
Publish Date: Wednesday, February 21, 2024 at 10:52 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2024/02/21/teamsters-trump-biden-union/ 
Description: The Teamsters has given $45,000 to the Republican National Committee, a departure for such a powerful labor group that has more recently supported Democrats.

Content: A previous version of this article understated how much Teamsters donated to the Democratic National Committee. The article has been corrected. The Teamsters’ political committee has given $45,000 to the Republican National Committee, according to federal records, a significant departure for a powerful organized labor group that has more recently supported Democrats, such as President Biden, who have championed workers’ rights. Get a curated selection of 10 of our best stories in your inbox every weekend.The union sent out the contribution — the maximum allowed from the union’s political action committee — to the RNC the same day former president Donald Trump met with Teamsters’ leadership for the second time in January.

An RNC official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the matter candidly, said that the RNC has not received a check nor heard from the Teamsters about a check coming.

The gift to the RNC, which is facing fundraising woes, magnifies tensions for unions that have benefited from Biden policies making it easier for workers to unionize and subsidizing projects to create union jobs, even as Trump remains popular among a lot of rank-and-file union members, especially in battleground states such as Michigan and Pennsylvania.

Following a meeting in late January at the Teamsters headquarters in D. C., Trump told reporters that he had a “good shot” at receiving the union’s endorsement. But Teamsters chief Sean O’Brien said during the same news conference that the Biden administration had “been great for unions,” adding that the Teamsters still had “some more questions that need to be asked to both candidates.”

O’Brien’s courting of Trump, starting when the two met privately in early January at the former president’s Mar-a-Lago estate, has outraged some of the union’s left-leaning leaders and members. One board member condemned the meetings, calling Trump a “known union buster, scab and insurrectionist,” according to the letter sent to the Teamsters president.

In January, days after O’Brien met with Trump, Teamsters executive board members received a letter asking them to vote to approve the $45,000 contribution to the RNC under the recommendation of both O’Brien and Secretary-Treasurer Fred Zuckerman.

The Teamsters union, which represents some 1.3 million UPS and other transportation workers, is one of only a handful that have not yet endorsed in the 2024 presidential race, wielding its stamp of approval as leverage in Washington, even as a large group of unions has endorsed Biden — the self-proclaimed “most pro-union president” — much earlier than typical in an election cycle.

O’Brien has said that it’s important for the union to get to know all candidates for the job and that members’ votes “will not be taken for granted.” Some labor experts say O’Brien could feel pressure to consider the memberships’ diverse political leanings, because he won his office in 2021 after running as a reform candidate who promised members more involvement in union decision-making. He is aware that many rank-and-file Teamsters are Republicans, they said.

The Teamsters occasionally make small political contributions through its political action committee to Republican candidates and PACs, but the donation to the RNC departs from its usual spending. It is the union’s first contribution to the RNC since it donated $15,000 in 2004, according to data on Open Secrets, a Washington nonprofit that tracks campaign finance contributions.

The Teamsters’ new donation to the RNC, according to public records, went specifically to the committee’s convention fund, so it cannot be used for the group’s general fund.

Meanwhile, the RNC recently reported that last year was its worst fundraising year since 2013, with the committee entering 2024 with only $8 million in cash on hand and its chair, Ronna McDaniel, expected to step down under pressure from Trump.

Trump ended last month with less cash in his campaign account than Biden, as his campaign and the leadership PAC bearing his legal expenses burned through its war chest.

Biden has frequently touted his strong ties to labor unions, while straining at times to make inroads with working-class members. His biggest wins for the labor movement include approving trillions of dollars in spending on infrastructure, semiconductor and climate packages that incentivize companies to hire union workers as well as installing a labor advocate to lead the National Labor Relations Board who has made it easier for workers to join unions. However, he drew backlash from railroad workers in 2022 after asking Congress to impose a union contract that did not include paid sick days to avert a strike.

Last month, he received the much-coveted endorsement from the United Auto Workers union, whose leader, Shawn Fain, said at the time, “Rarely, as a union, do you get so clear of a choice between two candidates. … Donald Trump is a scab.”

Trump has called himself “pro-worker,” positioning himself as an ally of the working class, but he has supported numerous policies that restricted labor’s power. He installed a leader at the NLRB, widely opposed by unions, whose policies and rulings weakened workers’ rights. Trump’s visit to Michigan during the UAW strike in the fall featured a rally with autoworkers at a nonunion shop, while Biden joined striking workers on a picket line, becoming the first sitting president to do so. Trump has received few union endorsements outside of law enforcement unions.

“We’ve never done anything like this in my time on the board,” John Palmer, a Teamsters executive board member, said of the contribution. “I suspect the play is that we’ll have a bit more leverage with the GOP, but it appears like a tacit endorsement of Trump.”


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 45

Headline: How Trump is becoming more authoritarian
Publish Date: Thursday, February 22, 2024 at 12:47 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/21/how-trump-is-becoming-more-authoritarian/ 
Description: What the media means when it says Trump has authoritarian plans for his second term

Content: Donald Trump has been clear about his intentions to govern in a more authoritarian way if he’s president again. But what does that actually mean?An authoritarian is someone who amasses power to amass more power, often exploiting gray areas in the law to do it — or ignoring the rule of law outright. In some senses of the definition, Trump fits the mold, says Meredith McGehee, a government ethics expert who formerly headed the bipartisan political reform group Issue One. For example: Trump ignored dozens of court rulings saying he had lost the 2020 election as he tried to stay in power anyway.

Now Trump and his allies are aspiring to break even more norms to get what they want. Trump has said that if he were elected for a second term, he wouldn’t be a dictator “except for Day One.”

“Since he has been president, his public statements indicate he has great frustration with using the system as it currently is,” McGehee said, “and when he makes a comment, ‘Yeah, I’d like to be dictator for a day,’ that indicates he does not value the democratic process as it has been traditionally viewed by the American political system.”

Rounding up undocumented immigrants and keeping them in mass deportation camps: Trump and his allies want to put together one of the biggest U. S. deportations of the past century, using the military to raid communities and hold potentially millions of migrants in mass detention camps before deporting them, The Washington Post’s Isaac Arnsdorf, Nick Miroff and Josh Dawsey report. To get around Congress — which might not give him the money to do this because it might be illegal — Trump would divert military funds, the New York Times reports.

Use the federal government to target his enemies: Trump says he’ll appoint a special prosecutor to “go after” President Biden. He has also talked privately about using the Justice Department to investigate top people in his first administration who now publicly criticize him, The Post’s Isaac, Josh and Devlin Barrett report.

“This is Third World country stuff, ‘arrest your opponent,’” Trump has said of his indictments, despite the fact that they are based on his actions, and that there’s no evidence of political motivation. “And that means I can do that, too.”

Make it harder to protest against him: Trump’s allies are considering how they could wield a Civil War-era law, the Insurrection Act, to use the military to clamp down on civil protests against him.

Legal and political experts worry this could do a lot of damage to democracy as we know it. “This is an existential moment for the country,” Michael Steele, a former head of the Republican National Committee, said in an interview this fall. “Do you really want to live in a country where the president of the United States is going after his political enemies?”

Trump will need allies to help him carry this all out, which is what worries McGehee. He didn’t quite have that in his first term; his second could be different. As Trump’s former chief of staff John F. Kelly told The Post: “The lesson the former president learned from his first term is don’t put guys like me … in those jobs. The lesson he learned was to find sycophants.”

Josh Chafetz, a constitutional law professor at Georgetown University, added in a recent interview: “If a president is truly determined to make himself a dictator, the question at the end of the day is whether the military and other force-deploying agencies of the federal government are willing to go along. If they are, there’s not much Congress or the courts could do about it.”

Have Republicans been able to uncover any evidence of wrongdoing? No, despite more than a year of investigating. Hunter Biden is charged by the federal government with illegally buying a gun and dodging taxes. He faces two trials this year and potential jail time if convicted.

But despite years of investigating, neither House Republicans nor a Trump-appointed federal prosecutor have found any evidence of illegal business dealings with his father. In fact, most of those who have testified to the House have said the opposite.

It’s not that Hunter Biden’s actions were perfect; he clearly traded on his name, and ethics experts have raised concerns that Hunter Biden’s work abroad allowed foreign companies to have a sheen of authority and presented a conflict of interest for his father. But there’s no evidence he and his father were illegally benefiting from shady business deals.

Was everything about Hunter Biden made up? Not necessarily; Republicans keep claiming they need to do more digging. But the allegation that topped their list — that Joe Biden accepted a bribe when he was vice president — seems to have been entirely made up. The Justice Department just indicted the informant who gave them that tip, saying this person has significant ties to Russian intelligence.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 46

Headline: Kamala Harris is an underrated asset
Publish Date: Thursday, February 22, 2024 at 12:45 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2024/02/22/kamala-harris-asset-campaign/ 
Description: Vice President Kamala Harris has hit her stride, providing Biden with key support among critical constituencies.

Content: Some defenders pointed to her eagerness in taking on seemingly impossible tasks (e.g., stemming the tide of Central American migrants); others argued the first woman of color in the job attracted disproportionate criticism. Whatever the cause, she has received harsh and sometimes petty media coverage, which too often simply regurgitated Republican attacks.

However, whatever one thought of her early days in the administration, those who look carefully will see that she has hit her stride, providing Biden with key support among critical constituencies. Most prominently, her fierce and eloquent defense of abortion rights post-Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization has “broken through” with voters, according to respected Democratic pollster Celinda Lake. Her empathic rhetoric tying abortion to “freedom” has helped reset the pro-choice message.

Her speech in Wisconsin in January on the 51st anniversary of Roe v. Wade underscored her effectiveness. “These extremists want to roll back the clock to a time before women were treated as full citizens — Wisconsin to the 1800s,” she told the audience. “Just look at what happened here in this beautiful state of Wisconsin. After Roe was dismantled, extremists evoked a law from 1849 to stop abortion in this state — 1849 — before women could vote, before women could hold elected office, before many women could even own property.” She pressed on, repeatedly interrupted by applause: “In a state whose motto is ‘Forward’ these extremists are trying to take us backwards. But we’re not having that. We’re not having that.” To cheers, she declared, “We trust women. We trust women to make decisions about their own bodies. We trust women to know what is in their own best interest. And women trust us to fight to protect their most fundamental freedoms.”

Indeed, she has been enthusiastically greeted throughout her barnstorming tours of college campuses in which abortion rights have been front and center. Even amid the controversies surrounding the Israel-Gaza war that have roiled campuses, she remains relentlessly on message, stressing issues that resonate with younger voters, including school shootings, climate change and LGBTQ+ rights.

In particular, she has excelled in her role as Biden defender and prosecutor of the case against four-times indicted former president Donald Trump. She launched a succinct and compelling indictment of special counsel Robert K. Hur’s lapse in prosecutorial judgment. “As a former prosecutor,” she declared Hur’s comments about Biden’s age and memory “gratuitous, inaccurate and inappropriate.”

Moreover, she explained that during the interview in the days after Hamas’s Oct. 7 attack on Israel, Biden spent “countless hours” with his national security team. She recalled that Biden was “on top of it all, asking questions and requiring that America’s military and intelligence community and diplomatic community would figure out and know: How many people were dead? How many are Americans? How many hostages? Is the situation stable?” She stressed that he remained “in front of it all, coordinating and directing leaders who are in charge of America’s national security — not to mention our allies around the globe — for days and, up until now, months.”

She concluded that “the way that the president’s demeanor in that report was characterized could not be more wrong on the facts and, clearly, politically motivated — gratuitous … We should expect that there would be a higher level of integrity than what we saw.” Her delivery was crisp, her tone appropriately indignant and her eyewitness account of Biden’s actual performance the single most effective rebuttal to the age issue.

And last week, in a critical international setting, she warned attendees at the Munich Security Conference of the danger of obsequiousness to Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny’s death. While not specifically naming Trump, she left little doubt about the target of her remarks. She told the audience, “I ask you: Imagine if America turned our back on Ukraine and abandoned our NATO allies and abandoned our treaty commitments. Imagine if we went easy on Putin, let alone encouraged him.” We need not imagine, of course, because Trump, just days before, had invited Putin to attack the alliance.

With Ukraine aid in the balance, she explained, “History offers a clue. If we stand by while an aggressor invades its neighbor with impunity, they will keep going. And in the case of Putin, that means all of Europe would be threatened.” She closed succinctly: “History has also shown us: If we only look inward, we cannot defeat threats from outside. Isolation is not insulation.”

Despite her near-flawless performance over the past year or so, do not expect the media to send out any “Kamala comeback” stories, let alone mea culpas for their excessively negative evaluation that she would handicap Biden. The media seems bent on artificially leveling the playing field rather than providing substantive coverage of Biden and Harris’s record and probing the egregious defects in their opponent. (Sure, Trump’s a crazy insurrectionist, an indicted criminal and a fascist, but Biden is old and has Harris!)

That said, her work as the tip of the campaign’s spear on critical issues such as abortion and her fiery prosecution of the case against Trump will be gauged by her reception internationally and at home with voters critical to the Biden-Harris victory. So far, she is hitting her marks.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 47

Headline: Democrats seek to leverage Alabama embryo ruling in an election year
Publish Date: Thursday, February 22, 2024 at 03:45 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/22/election-democrats-alabama-embryo-ruling/ 
Description: Democrats, including those in the White House, argue that the Alabama Supreme Court decision is a harbinger of further restrictions if Republicans make gains in the 2024 elections.

Content: Reproductive rights have been a highly favorable election issue for Democrats in recent contests. Ever since the U. S. Supreme Court overturned Roe, every ballot measure that has sought to preserve or expand abortion access has been successful, while those that have sought to restrict abortion access have failed — even in states that skew conservative.

“Millions of Americans struggle every year with infertility and rely on access to IVF treatments in order to become pregnant and enjoy the gift of parenthood,” he said. “The ruling in Alabama is extremely shortsighted and will have a negative impact on those seeking IVF treatment. It is simply unfathomable to me that a party that proclaims itself to be pro-family would support policies … like this one.”

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 97,128 infants were born nationwide using assisted reproductive technology — the most common type of which is IVF — in 2021, the last year for which statistics where available. There are 453 IVF clinics nationwide, and every state except Wyoming has at least one clinic. The Pew Research Center reported that one-third of U. S. adults have used fertility treatments or know someone who has.

Sen. Tina Smith (D-Minn.) called it “shameful,” and emphasized that reproductive freedom was “about more than just the right to have an abortion — it’s the right to make your own decisions about your reproductive health.” Rep. Mark Takano (D-Calif.) called the decision “extreme” and warned that it would scare doctors and practitioners from helping patients.

Duckworth has been sounding the alarm on would-be threats to IVF for years, notably calling out Supreme Court Justice Amy Coney Barrett over her past support of a group that believes life begins at fertilization and that steps in IVF should be criminalized. Upon introducing her bill in January, Duckworth implored her Republican colleagues not to let “fringe subsets of their base” convince them to restrict procedures that people rely on to have children.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 48

Headline: Democrats seek to leverage Alabama embryo ruling in an election year
Publish Date: Thursday, February 22, 2024 at 03:45 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/22/election-democrats-alabama-embryo-ruling/?itid=lk_inline_manual_11 
Description: Democrats, including those in the White House, argue that the Alabama Supreme Court decision is a harbinger of further restrictions if Republicans make gains in the 2024 elections.

Content: Reproductive rights have been a highly favorable election issue for Democrats in recent contests. Ever since the U. S. Supreme Court overturned Roe, every ballot measure that has sought to preserve or expand abortion access has been successful, while those that have sought to restrict abortion access have failed — even in states that skew conservative.

“Millions of Americans struggle every year with infertility and rely on access to IVF treatments in order to become pregnant and enjoy the gift of parenthood,” he said. “The ruling in Alabama is extremely shortsighted and will have a negative impact on those seeking IVF treatment. It is simply unfathomable to me that a party that proclaims itself to be pro-family would support policies … like this one.”

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 97,128 infants were born nationwide using assisted reproductive technology — the most common type of which is IVF — in 2021, the last year for which statistics where available. There are 453 IVF clinics nationwide, and every state except Wyoming has at least one clinic. The Pew Research Center reported that one-third of U. S. adults have used fertility treatments or know someone who has.

Sen. Tina Smith (D-Minn.) called it “shameful,” and emphasized that reproductive freedom was “about more than just the right to have an abortion — it’s the right to make your own decisions about your reproductive health.” Rep. Mark Takano (D-Calif.) called the decision “extreme” and warned that it would scare doctors and practitioners from helping patients.

Duckworth has been sounding the alarm on would-be threats to IVF for years, notably calling out Supreme Court Justice Amy Coney Barrett over her past support of a group that believes life begins at fertilization and that steps in IVF should be criminalized. Upon introducing her bill in January, Duckworth implored her Republican colleagues not to let “fringe subsets of their base” convince them to restrict procedures that people rely on to have children.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 49

Headline: Democrats seek to leverage Alabama embryo ruling in an election year
Publish Date: Thursday, February 22, 2024 at 03:45 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/22/election-democrats-alabama-embryo-ruling/?itid=lk_interstitial_manual_9 
Description: Democrats, including those in the White House, argue that the Alabama Supreme Court decision is a harbinger of further restrictions if Republicans make gains in the 2024 elections.

Content: Reproductive rights have been a highly favorable election issue for Democrats in recent contests. Ever since the U. S. Supreme Court overturned Roe, every ballot measure that has sought to preserve or expand abortion access has been successful, while those that have sought to restrict abortion access have failed — even in states that skew conservative.

“Millions of Americans struggle every year with infertility and rely on access to IVF treatments in order to become pregnant and enjoy the gift of parenthood,” he said. “The ruling in Alabama is extremely shortsighted and will have a negative impact on those seeking IVF treatment. It is simply unfathomable to me that a party that proclaims itself to be pro-family would support policies … like this one.”

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 97,128 infants were born nationwide using assisted reproductive technology — the most common type of which is IVF — in 2021, the last year for which statistics where available. There are 453 IVF clinics nationwide, and every state except Wyoming has at least one clinic. The Pew Research Center reported that one-third of U. S. adults have used fertility treatments or know someone who has.

Sen. Tina Smith (D-Minn.) called it “shameful,” and emphasized that reproductive freedom was “about more than just the right to have an abortion — it’s the right to make your own decisions about your reproductive health.” Rep. Mark Takano (D-Calif.) called the decision “extreme” and warned that it would scare doctors and practitioners from helping patients.

Duckworth has been sounding the alarm on would-be threats to IVF for years, notably calling out Supreme Court Justice Amy Coney Barrett over her past support of a group that believes life begins at fertilization and that steps in IVF should be criminalized. Upon introducing her bill in January, Duckworth implored her Republican colleagues not to let “fringe subsets of their base” convince them to restrict procedures that people rely on to have children.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 50

Headline: Welcome, Democrats, to the ‘abnormal is the new normal’ charade
Publish Date: Thursday, February 22, 2024 at 06:42 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2024/02/22/trump-biden-abnormal-new-normal/ 
Description: With Trump and Biden steaming toward their parties’ nominations, voters face months of campaigns pretending that everything is normal. It’s not.

Content: The news that Commander, President Biden’s German shepherd, was involved in at least 25 biting incidents in less than a year isn’t the biggest news of the week, but it does illuminate a deeper problem around the president and his team. USA Today reported that newly unsealed Secret Service records “showed bites to agents’ arms, hands, thighs, back, wrists, elbows, waist, chest and an agent’s ammunition magazine pouch. At least 11 of the incidents required medical attention. … In one case last summer, surveillance footage ...  showed the dog racing at the agent and tackling him to the ground. He received a deep laceration that required stitches. East Wing tours were suspended that June day while maintenance crews mopped up the puddles of blood near the Booksellers Room.”

If you worked in the White House, how many times would you need to see the president’s dog bite a Secret Service agent or other staffer before you concluded there was a major problem and that a large, aggressive dog shouldn’t be stuck in the White House?

But it wasn’t until October that Commander, after more than two dozen attacks, was finally banished. The president’s dog pulling a Cujo is an abnormal situation, but it seems that in this White House, everyone just has to pretend that something that is obviously, glaringly, undeniably not right is totally unremarkable.

You can see Democrats sinking into that miserable spot that sane Republicans have been in with Donald Trump since 2016, where they have to pretend that a highly abnormal situation is perfectly normal.

The degree of pretending will be even more intense this election cycle because of Trump’s indictments and the more dangerous world we live in. Barring some miraculous comeback by Nikki Haley, Republicans will have to act like it’s perfectly normal for a 78-year-old nominee to boast that he would encourage Russia “to do whatever the hell they want” to any NATO country he felt hadn’t made sufficient financial contributions to the organization, or for him to compare his legal problems to Alexei Navalny’s dying in a Russian prison or to be talking up militarized mass deportations and detention camps.

But the incumbent … isn’t as normal as he and his allies wish everyone would believe. For the next eight months or so, Democrats will have to act as though it’s perfectly normal for an 81-year-old man, whose infirmities are increasingly apparent, to run for a second term as president and that it’s entirely reasonable to believe that in the fall of 2028, a hale and hearty Biden, approaching age 86, will still be president.

It’s highly abnormal — actually, unprecedented — for an octogenarian to run for another four years in one of the world’s toughest jobs. A Post headline from 1984 as President Ronald Reagan ran for reelection against Walter Mondale: “Age Emerges As New Issue In Campaign.” The paper reported that “Democrats, usually sensitive about raising the issue, openly suggested that Reagan, 73, was too old to serve another four years.” Wouldn’t you love to have a nominee this cycle who’s just 73?

Note that from the beginning of Biden’s presidency, he and first lady Jill Biden and the rest of the Biden inner circle have acted like it was absurd to even suggest that an 81-year-old president wouldn’t run for a second term. Never mind that in 2019, Biden aides debated whether the candidate should pledge to serve just one term and that on the campaign trail in March 2020, Biden said he saw himself as “a bridge” to a younger generation of Democratic leaders. Apparently, that bridge is getting an extension.

Everyone notices that Abnormal Is the New Normal in American politics. A CNN poll conducted at the end of January found 63 percent of Americans said Trump is “too extreme,” including 33 percent of self-identified Republicans. Fifty-three percent of Democrats said they thought Democrats have a better chance of winning the presidency if someone other than Biden is the party’s nominee. An ABC News/Ipsos poll this month found 73 percent of Democrats said Biden is too old to serve a second term. Yet both candidates are powering toward their parties’ nominations.

Nobody thinks there’s anything normal about having these two grouchy old men vie for the White House. But, apparently, both major parties think we will avert our eyes and pretend (the way Biden’s and Trump’s handlers do) that we don’t see it — even though the candidates’ flaws are as hard to ignore as a German shepherd attacking a Secret Service agent.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 51

Headline: Court battle reveals effort to undermine No Labels presidential bid
Publish Date: Friday, February 23, 2024 at 12:37 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/22/no-labels-lawsuit-election/ 
Description: Liberal activists took over the website NoLabels.com with plans for mischief. The group sees a larger conspiracy.

Content: Siler said in his deposition that he was motivated by a desire to rally a “community of motivated, disaffected and unaffiliated voters” that has been attracted to the No Labels group. But a planning deck he created for the project, which was produced Thursday in the U. S. District Court of Delaware, suggested a different motive.

The court case comes amid ongoing debate over the goals of the No Labels effort, which aims to potentially place a yet-to-be-identified bipartisan presidential ticket on as many ballots as possible. Many Democrats and moderate Republicans fiercely oppose the idea, fearing that such a ticket could hand the White House back to Trump.

For their part, No Labels leaders have been making a public case that their political opponents, including Democratic operatives in Washington, have engaged in a criminal conspiracy to prevent them from getting state ballot access, punish people for working with them, and dissuade potential candidates from using their ballot lines. A letter they wrote to the Department of Justice asking for a criminal investigation has not received a response.

According to evidence from the civil case, one early proposal for the new mirror site by Siler included plans that were never acted upon, like the use of “christo-nationalist dog whistles” — including the numbers “14” and “88,” which are often used as code by white nationalists to promote their cause.

Another proposal called for posting an online poll about who No Labels should nominate for president, “and then we can just rig our own poll to make it look as” bad as possible. A section of the site could possibly include No Labels’ “actual contact info” and link to “actual” No Label’s content, the document said. Siler described the ideas as being part of an early discussion document, with ideas that were discarded.

After the website appeared in November with Google ads that redirected people searching the group’s name, No Labels sued for trademark infringement. U. S. District Court in Delaware ruled that the website must be taken down while litigation continues. Federal judge Gregory B. Williams continued that injunction in a ruling Thursday after two attorneys for NoLabels.com failed to contest the presentation from a team of six No Labels lawyers.

Siler argued in an interview after Thursday’s ruling that the day in court was “actually a big victory for us.” No Labels had described in other depositions the mechanism by which the national group, a 501(c) 4 nonprofit, exerts control over the state party organizations that have been winning ballot access for a potential No Labels presidential ticket.

No Labels has said they will only field candidates if there is a clear path to winning the electoral college, and have vowed not to do anything that would reelect Trump. Leaders of the 501(c) 4 have also said that the group is only seeking ballot access, and will not be involved in any subsequent campaign. They say all their activities are legal under both state and federal laws.

“For months, there has been a coordinated and potentially criminal partisan effort to mislead voters and block No Labels’ access to the ballot,” Joe Cunningham, No Labels national director, said in a statement after the hearing. “Today, Americans learned that these cynical operatives stooped too a new low by trying to hijack No Labels website and misrepresent what we stand for. Fortunately the court sided with No Labels.”

Siler said in his deposition that he originally brought the idea of acquiring NoLabels.com to Lucy Caldwell, a political operative who has been active in a broader effort by Democrats and anti-Trump Republicans to stop No Labels’ presidential ambitions. She attended a June meeting at the offices of Third Way with top Democratic officials, including former White House chief of staff Ron Klain, who attended in his personal capacity.

Caldwell, who worked with Siler on the 2020 presidential campaign of former congressman Joe Walsh (R-Ill.), said in an interview Thursday that the broader anti-No Labels coalition was not involved in this effort. She said No Labels was using the trademark litigation to build a broader conspiracy case against their opponents.

“To assert their claim over the mark, No Labels has backed themselves into a position of admitting to doing all these things that are highly unusual and improper,” Caldwell said. “This is about compliance with campaign finance rules in states. Someone should look at that.”

Depositions in court from Siler and others showed that a group called American Patriot Project, which works with both Caldwell and Siler, had funded the NoLabels.com website effort. Josh Silver, the founder of RepresentUS and a leader of the American Patriot Project, said in his own deposition that he viewed the No Labels presidential effort as “the dumbest political strategy I have ever seen,” since it could lead to the reelection of Trump.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 52

Headline: Court battle reveals effort to undermine No Labels presidential bid
Publish Date: Friday, February 23, 2024 at 12:37 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/22/no-labels-lawsuit-election/?itid=cp_CP-2_2 
Description: Liberal activists took over the website NoLabels.com with plans for mischief. The group sees a larger conspiracy.

Content: Siler said in his deposition that he was motivated by a desire to rally a “community of motivated, disaffected and unaffiliated voters” that has been attracted to the No Labels group. But a planning deck he created for the project, which was produced Thursday in the U. S. District Court of Delaware, suggested a different motive.

The court case comes amid ongoing debate over the goals of the No Labels effort, which aims to potentially place a yet-to-be-identified bipartisan presidential ticket on as many ballots as possible. Many Democrats and moderate Republicans fiercely oppose the idea, fearing that such a ticket could hand the White House back to Trump.

For their part, No Labels leaders have been making a public case that their political opponents, including Democratic operatives in Washington, have engaged in a criminal conspiracy to prevent them from getting state ballot access, punish people for working with them, and dissuade potential candidates from using their ballot lines. A letter they wrote to the Department of Justice asking for a criminal investigation has not received a response.

According to evidence from the civil case, one early proposal for the new mirror site by Siler included plans that were never acted upon, like the use of “christo-nationalist dog whistles” — including the numbers “14” and “88,” which are often used as code by white nationalists to promote their cause.

Another proposal called for posting an online poll about who No Labels should nominate for president, “and then we can just rig our own poll to make it look as” bad as possible. A section of the site could possibly include No Labels’ “actual contact info” and link to “actual” No Label’s content, the document said. Siler described the ideas as being part of an early discussion document, with ideas that were discarded.

After the website appeared in November with Google ads that redirected people searching the group’s name, No Labels sued for trademark infringement. U. S. District Court in Delaware ruled that the website must be taken down while litigation continues. Federal judge Gregory B. Williams continued that injunction in a ruling Thursday after two attorneys for NoLabels.com failed to contest the presentation from a team of six No Labels lawyers.

Siler argued in an interview after Thursday’s ruling that the day in court was “actually a big victory for us.” No Labels had described in other depositions the mechanism by which the national group, a 501(c) 4 nonprofit, exerts control over the state party organizations that have been winning ballot access for a potential No Labels presidential ticket.

No Labels has said they will only field candidates if there is a clear path to winning the electoral college, and have vowed not to do anything that would reelect Trump. Leaders of the 501(c) 4 have also said that the group is only seeking ballot access, and will not be involved in any subsequent campaign. They say all their activities are legal under both state and federal laws.

“For months, there has been a coordinated and potentially criminal partisan effort to mislead voters and block No Labels’ access to the ballot,” Joe Cunningham, No Labels national director, said in a statement after the hearing. “Today, Americans learned that these cynical operatives stooped too a new low by trying to hijack No Labels website and misrepresent what we stand for. Fortunately the court sided with No Labels.”

Siler said in his deposition that he originally brought the idea of acquiring NoLabels.com to Lucy Caldwell, a political operative who has been active in a broader effort by Democrats and anti-Trump Republicans to stop No Labels’ presidential ambitions. She attended a June meeting at the offices of Third Way with top Democratic officials, including former White House chief of staff Ron Klain, who attended in his personal capacity.

Caldwell, who worked with Siler on the 2020 presidential campaign of former congressman Joe Walsh (R-Ill.), said in an interview Thursday that the broader anti-No Labels coalition was not involved in this effort. She said No Labels was using the trademark litigation to build a broader conspiracy case against their opponents.

“To assert their claim over the mark, No Labels has backed themselves into a position of admitting to doing all these things that are highly unusual and improper,” Caldwell said. “This is about compliance with campaign finance rules in states. Someone should look at that.”

Depositions in court from Siler and others showed that a group called American Patriot Project, which works with both Caldwell and Siler, had funded the NoLabels.com website effort. Josh Silver, the founder of RepresentUS and a leader of the American Patriot Project, said in his own deposition that he viewed the No Labels presidential effort as “the dumbest political strategy I have ever seen,” since it could lead to the reelection of Trump.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 53

Headline: Court battle reveals effort to undermine No Labels presidential bid
Publish Date: Friday, February 23, 2024 at 12:37 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/22/no-labels-lawsuit-election/?itid=cp_CP-2_1 
Description: Liberal activists took over the website NoLabels.com with plans for mischief. The group sees a larger conspiracy.

Content: Siler said in his deposition that he was motivated by a desire to rally a “community of motivated, disaffected and unaffiliated voters” that has been attracted to the No Labels group. But a planning deck he created for the project, which was produced Thursday in the U. S. District Court of Delaware, suggested a different motive.

The court case comes amid ongoing debate over the goals of the No Labels effort, which aims to potentially place a yet-to-be-identified bipartisan presidential ticket on as many ballots as possible. Many Democrats and moderate Republicans fiercely oppose the idea, fearing that such a ticket could hand the White House back to Trump.

For their part, No Labels leaders have been making a public case that their political opponents, including Democratic operatives in Washington, have engaged in a criminal conspiracy to prevent them from getting state ballot access, punish people for working with them, and dissuade potential candidates from using their ballot lines. A letter they wrote to the Department of Justice asking for a criminal investigation has not received a response.

According to evidence from the civil case, one early proposal for the new mirror site by Siler included plans that were never acted upon, like the use of “christo-nationalist dog whistles” — including the numbers “14” and “88,” which are often used as code by white nationalists to promote their cause.

Another proposal called for posting an online poll about who No Labels should nominate for president, “and then we can just rig our own poll to make it look as” bad as possible. A section of the site could possibly include No Labels’ “actual contact info” and link to “actual” No Label’s content, the document said. Siler described the ideas as being part of an early discussion document, with ideas that were discarded.

After the website appeared in November with Google ads that redirected people searching the group’s name, No Labels sued for trademark infringement. U. S. District Court in Delaware ruled that the website must be taken down while litigation continues. Federal judge Gregory B. Williams continued that injunction in a ruling Thursday after two attorneys for NoLabels.com failed to contest the presentation from a team of six No Labels lawyers.

Siler argued in an interview after Thursday’s ruling that the day in court was “actually a big victory for us.” No Labels had described in other depositions the mechanism by which the national group, a 501(c) 4 nonprofit, exerts control over the state party organizations that have been winning ballot access for a potential No Labels presidential ticket.

No Labels has said they will only field candidates if there is a clear path to winning the electoral college, and have vowed not to do anything that would reelect Trump. Leaders of the 501(c) 4 have also said that the group is only seeking ballot access, and will not be involved in any subsequent campaign. They say all their activities are legal under both state and federal laws.

“For months, there has been a coordinated and potentially criminal partisan effort to mislead voters and block No Labels’ access to the ballot,” Joe Cunningham, No Labels national director, said in a statement after the hearing. “Today, Americans learned that these cynical operatives stooped too a new low by trying to hijack No Labels website and misrepresent what we stand for. Fortunately the court sided with No Labels.”

Siler said in his deposition that he originally brought the idea of acquiring NoLabels.com to Lucy Caldwell, a political operative who has been active in a broader effort by Democrats and anti-Trump Republicans to stop No Labels’ presidential ambitions. She attended a June meeting at the offices of Third Way with top Democratic officials, including former White House chief of staff Ron Klain, who attended in his personal capacity.

Caldwell, who worked with Siler on the 2020 presidential campaign of former congressman Joe Walsh (R-Ill.), said in an interview Thursday that the broader anti-No Labels coalition was not involved in this effort. She said No Labels was using the trademark litigation to build a broader conspiracy case against their opponents.

“To assert their claim over the mark, No Labels has backed themselves into a position of admitting to doing all these things that are highly unusual and improper,” Caldwell said. “This is about compliance with campaign finance rules in states. Someone should look at that.”

Depositions in court from Siler and others showed that a group called American Patriot Project, which works with both Caldwell and Siler, had funded the NoLabels.com website effort. Josh Silver, the founder of RepresentUS and a leader of the American Patriot Project, said in his own deposition that he viewed the No Labels presidential effort as “the dumbest political strategy I have ever seen,” since it could lead to the reelection of Trump.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 54

Headline: Trump equates his domestic political opposition to WWII enemies abroad
Publish Date: Friday, February 23, 2024 at 04:41 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/22/trump-threats-world-war-ii/ 
Description: ‘It’s the people from within our country that are more dangerous,’ he told religious broadcasters on Thursday, ratcheting up his inflammatory language against Americans who oppose him.

Content: Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump further ratcheted up his inflammatory language against Americans who oppose him politically by likening them to the foreign enemies that the United States fought in World War II. Cut through the 2024 election noise. Get The Campaign Moment newsletter.In a speech on Thursday to the National Religious Broadcasters in Nashville, the former president drew a direct connection between the battles during that organization’s founding in 1944 and his current campaign to win back the White House.

“Our country was at war with the enemy, and they wanted to extinguish our way of life forever,” Trump said. He added: “This time, the greatest threat is not from the outside of our country, I really believe this. It’s the people from within our country that are more dangerous. They’re very sick people.”

The audience cheered, and Trump went on to describe his cause as a holy war, adding: “To achieve victory in this fight, just like in the battles of the past, we still need the hand of our Lord.”

Trump has similarly railed against domestic enemies throughout the campaign, including in a speech on Veterans Day when he went so far as to compare his political opponents to “vermin” that he pledged to “root out” — terms that historians said echoed the propaganda of 20th-century dictators.

Trump has, on his own terms, promised to exercise power to deliver “retribution” and govern as a “dictator” on “day one” (sometimes claiming he was saying so in jest). In response to concerns about such pronouncements, Trump has started spinning accusations of undermining democracy back on his critics — a tactic that experts in political rhetoric say can be used to confuse or numb voters. On Thursday he called Biden’s actions “evil and a threat to democracy” and vowed to “reclaim our government from these tyrants.”

The former president faces 91 criminal charges, including some allegations centering on efforts to overturn the 2020 election. He repeated a pledge on Thursday to appoint a task force to review the cases of “every political prisoner” prosecuted by the Justice Department — a term that he has frequently used to describe defendants charged in the Jan. 6, 2021, riot at the U. S. Capitol.

Trump’s speech on Thursday was preceded by a recording of him reciting the Pledge of Allegiance mixed with a rendition of the national anthem by the “J6 Prison Choir,” purporting to be Jan. 6 defendants held in the Washington jail, including some of the most violent offenders convicted of assaulting police. During his remarks, Trump praised their “tremendous spirit” and called them “hostages.”

Trump is heavily favored in polls of Saturday’s primary in South Carolina, after winning handily in the first nominating contests. Tennessee’s Republicans vote on March 5, known as Super Tuesday for the multitude of states holding primaries that day. Trump’s campaign has projected that he could win enough pledged delegates to secure the Republican nomination by the end of March.

Trump on Thursday pledged to create a new federal task force against “anti-Christian bias” that would investigate “discrimination, harassment and persecution against Christians in America,” according to his prepared remarks. He said any Christian or person of faith who votes for a Democrat is “crazy.”

“You cannot let people vote for these people, you cannot let people vote for the Democrats,” he said.

Trump repeated a false claim that he removed federal restrictions on religious organizations or other nonprofits from endorsing political candidates. Trump said if reelected he would permanently eliminate the restrictions, known as the Johnson Amendment.

The former president also reprised his attacks on pro-Palestinian protesters, calling them “foreign jihadists.” He has previously said he would revoke student visas for protesters and reimpose a ban on travel from Muslim-majority countries.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 55

Headline: How a Bill Barr ‘assignment’ led to a Biden impeachment effort based on a lie
Publish Date: Friday, February 23, 2024 at 08:00 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/23/how-bill-barr-assignment-led-biden-impeachment-effort-based-lie/?itid=cp_CP-2_2 
Description: The Alexander Smirnov saga has its roots in a project launched by then-Attorney General William P. Barr soon after Trump was impeached for the first time.

Content: To some extent, this story mirrors that of the “Steele dossier,” a string of unverified and derogatory pieces of information on Trump collected during the 2016 election by a confidential source trusted by the FBI, Christopher Steele, on behalf of Hillary Clinton’s campaign and the Democratic National Committee. Steele’s reports, leaked to the media, created a firestorm of speculation by Democrats about Trump’s ties to Russia — even though much of it turned out to be false. (Steele has said he stands by his work.)

In the same vein, the Smirnov tale has its roots in a Republican effort to target Biden. His story didn’t gain much traction among investigators in 2020 but emerged in 2023 and was immediately embraced as true by many GOP lawmakers. A detailed review of information contained in the indictment, Brady’s testimony before congressional investigators, public statements and other documents shows that — absent Barr’s creation of a Biden task force — Smirnov’s allegations probably never would have appeared in the FBI document that led to his indictment and to the possible collapse of the Republicans’ impeachment case with Smirnov as its star.

March 1, 2017: Smirnov, an FBI source since 2010, speaks to his FBI handler as part of a routine communication. He says that in the previous month, he had a discussion with Mykola Zlochevsky, the chief executive of the Ukrainian gas firm Burisma, about possibly acquiring a U. S.-based petroleum firm. As an aside, he mentions that Hunter Biden is on the Burisma board. He makes no mention of an alleged bribe to the Bidens. The report of the conversation, known as an FD-1023, is filed away.

June 26: FBI Pittsburgh asks the handler to contact Smirnov. That same day, he telephones Smirnov. This time, the indictment says, Smirnov said he met and spoke with Zlochevsky in 2015 and/or 2016, mentioning specific locations such as Vienna, and was told Biden and his son had each been paid $5 million to oust the prosecutor and protect Burisma. (It is unclear why neither Smirnov nor the handler followed up on the May text exchange until prodded by Brady’s team.) The indictment says this story was a fabrication.

“We attempted to use open-source material to check against what was stated in the 1023,” Brady said. “We also interfaced with the CHS’ handler about certain statements relating to travel and meetings to see if they were consistent with his or her understanding. … What we were able to identify, we found that it was consistent. And so we felt that there were sufficient indicia of credibility in this 1023 to pass it on to an office that had a predicated grand jury investigation.”

Oct. 23: Brady and FBI agents brief Weiss’s office on his findings. “We could only present what we had identified, explain to them the sources by which we believed something had indicia of credibility, and then make recommendations about what we think they might want to do with that,” Brady said. With the conclusion of the briefing, Brady’s “tasking” ends. “We pulled up our stakes and folded our tent and went on to other things,” he said.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 56

Headline: U.S. imposes more than 500 new Russia sanctions after Navalny’s death
Publish Date: Friday, February 23, 2024 at 12:30 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2024/02/23/us-sanctions-russia-navalny/?itid=cp_CP-2_1 
Description: The Treasury Department on Friday announced an aggressive expansion of existing financial penalties.

Content: Accessibility statementSkip to main content

U. S. imposes more than 500 new Russia sanctions after Navalny’s deathThe move represents the most aggressive new penalties on the Kremlin in months, but their effectiveness is uncertainFlowers, lights and portraits are displayed at a memorial site for Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny in Barcelona on Feb. 22, 2024. (Nacho Doce/Reuters)The Biden administration announced Friday that it will hit Russia with hundreds of new sanctions after the death of dissident Alexei Navalny, but experts say they appear unlikely to curb the billions of dollars in energy revenue that have financed President Vladimir Putin’s war in Ukraine.Get a curated selection of 10 of our best stories in your inbox every weekend.The United States will impose more than 500 new sanctions on Russian companies, individuals and firms in other countries that supply Russia’s military and industrial production, according to a Treasury Department spokeswoman. Treasury on Friday said it would also sanction Russia’s largest shipping company, while simultaneously granting most of that company’s fleet an exemption to continue to trade without financial penalties. Energy sales are by far the biggest source of revenue for the Kremlin, but Western allies have been wary of shutting off a crucial source of fuel for the global economy, and Friday’s moves appear to do little to alter that.The West’s sanctions on Russia, though billed as among the toughest ever, have thus far failed to deter Putin from carrying out the war in Ukraine, and the announcement of new measures may raise questions about why the United States had not previously targeted these firms. Despite the predictions of some analysts, Russia’s economy grew by more than 3 percent last year — faster than the United States — as Moscow spent extensively to support the war effort. Deputy Treasury Secretary Wally Adeyemo told reporters the United States will not seek to lower the price at which Russians can sell oil, under the existing Western “price cap” that requires purchasers to buy Russian oil at a discounted rate or face severe financial penalties.“You will, of course, see sanctions aimed at Russia’s human rights abuses at home and abroad,” Adeyemo said, previewing an address he is expected to give Monday at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. Adeyemo said additional human rights-related sanctions would be announced by the State Department. “Know that Alexei Navalny’s tragic death, and the abuses that preceded it, will not be forgotten nor go unanswered,” he said.Navalny died last week in a remote Arctic prison colony, and his family and many supporters believe the opposition leader was murdered. President Biden met with his widow and daughter, Yulia and Daria Navalnaya, in San Francisco on Thursday and has said he believes Putin is responsible for the death. The new sanctions come one day before the second anniversary of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, which began on Feb. 24, 2022.“If Putin does not pay the price for his death and destruction, he will keep going. And the costs to the United States — along with our NATO Allies and partners in Europe and around the world — will rise,” Biden said in a statement. “These sanctions will target individuals connected to Navalny’s imprisonment as well as Russia’s financial sector, defense industrial base, procurement networks and sanctions evaders across multiple continents. They will ensure Putin pays an even steeper price for his aggression abroad and repression at home.”The new sanctions target Russia’s ability to import tools critical to advanced manufacturing and technology, aiming to cut off the robotics, industrial automation, software and lasers that are important to Moscow’s military hardware, often acquired from firms abroad. While the Russian economy has continued to grow, U.S. officials maintain that it has only done so by expanding military spending, making it more vulnerable overall to targeted sanctions on international suppliers. European and British officials are joining the U.S. sanctions, aiming to force these international suppliers to pick between the West’s financial system and Russia.“These firms have a choice: Do business with Russia’s military industrial complex or with countries that represent more than 50 percent of the global economy,” Adeyemo said.The United States is also imposing sanctions on the National Card Payments System (NSPK), the Russian central bank-owned operator of the country’s Mir bank card — set up in 2014 as an alternative to Visa and Mastercard. Russia had sought to expand the number of countries accepting its Mir card to bypass a payment blockade by Visa and Mastercard since Russia’s invasion. Payments through Mir have been accepted in Cuba, Venezuela, Vietnam and the former Soviet republics of Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. Turkey also provided an important channel until its state banks — under pressure from the U.S. government — suspended transactions through the system in September 2022.But Sergey Aleksashenko, a former deputy chairman of Russia’s central bank now living in exile in the United States, said the raft of new sanctions would undoubtedly further hit the Russian economy. Although it was difficult to gauge the overall impact since many of the firms targeted were obscure, the cost of transactions for the newly targeted Russian entities would increase, as they’ll have to pay ever-higher commissions to firms enabling them to bypass sanctions via myriad trading routes through India, China and other countries, he said.“For Putin, the economic cost of the war is going to grow,” Aleksashenko said. “But it is not going to be a factor that changes [his] political calculation.”The sanctions targeting NSPK, meanwhile, would mostly impact ordinary Russians trying to make payments abroad, including those in opposition to Putin who have left the country. “This is a clear mistake,” Aleksashenko said.The attempt to tighten financial penalties comes at a perilous moment for Ukraine and its allies, with Republicans in Congress blocking Biden’s proposed foreign aid package amid opposition from former president Donald Trump. Kyiv and its Western allies have grown alarmed by the prospect that military and economic support from the United States could fall through entirely, and Adeyemo called for House Republicans to back the proposal.The Biden administration has argued that the West’s sanctions efforts have hurt the Russian economy and made it more difficult for Putin to fight the war, maintaining that it was never realistic to hope sanctions could stop the fighting altogether. Treasury officials say Russian energy revenue dropped by about 40 percent last year, largely due to the imposition of the price cap.But Russia still earned roughly $99 billion in oil and gas revenue last year, according to S&P Global. Treasury on Friday announced new sanctions on the Russian shipping firm Sovcomflot, as the U.S. tries to make it more expensive for Moscow to sell oil outside the price cap. But it also undercut those sanctions by granting a “general license” that appears to exempt all but 14 of its vessels.“This is very much on the margin,” said Edward Fishman, a former State Department sanctions expert and now a senior research scholar at Columbia University’s Center on Global Energy Policy, who called it a good first step. “The Biden administration should have taken this step a long time ago. But the immediate impact will be muted because it has simultaneously waved sanctions on a majority of Sovcomflot’s fleet.”Ukrainian officials and some allies of the Biden administration have urged them to go further in cutting off Russian energy sales. Eswar Prasad, an economist at Cornell University who worked at the International Monetary Fund, said the latest round of sanctions is “likely to be symbolically important, but substantively of limited value in crimping the Russian economy.” Prasad pointed out that China has stepped up to help Russia and that Kremlin officials have proved adept at circumventing the sanctions and managing their country’s economy.“The trade-off between inflicting pain on the Russian economy and limiting the economic fallout to their own economies has certainly kept the U.S. from tightening the screws to the extent necessary to inflict economic pain on Russia,” Prasad said. “The sobering reality is that these sanctions are not quite having the substantial effect on Russia that had been anticipated.”Adeyemo said U.S. officials are wary that cutting off Russian oil sales too aggressively could cause prices to spike internationally, leading to more revenue for the Kremlin and hurting low-income nations.Biden administration officials have explored the possibility of repurposing more than $350 billion in Russian central bank assets that are currently being held in Western capitals. But with most of those funds in Europe, Adeyemo told reporters on Thursday night that the United States would not act without simultaneous movement from European allies. Some European officials have expressed concern that raiding Russia’s central bank assets could violate international law and undermine the euro.“At [Treasury] Secretary [Janet L.] Yellen’s direction, we’re spending a great deal of time thinking about how we can unlock the economic value of those sovereign assets,” Adeyemo said.Views from The Post’s Editorial Board on current eventsXi is tanking China’s economy. That’s bad for the U.S.Sign in or create a free account to save your preferences


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 57

Headline: U.S. imposes more than 500 new Russia sanctions after Navalny’s death
Publish Date: Friday, February 23, 2024 at 12:30 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2024/02/23/us-sanctions-russia-navalny/?itid=cp_CP-2_3 
Description: The Treasury Department on Friday announced an aggressive expansion of existing financial penalties.

Content: Accessibility statementSkip to main content

U. S. imposes more than 500 new Russia sanctions after Navalny’s deathThe move represents the most aggressive new penalties on the Kremlin in months, but their effectiveness is uncertainFlowers, lights and portraits are displayed at a memorial site for Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny in Barcelona on Feb. 22, 2024. (Nacho Doce/Reuters)The Biden administration announced Friday that it will hit Russia with hundreds of new sanctions after the death of dissident Alexei Navalny, but experts say they appear unlikely to curb the billions of dollars in energy revenue that have financed President Vladimir Putin’s war in Ukraine.Get a curated selection of 10 of our best stories in your inbox every weekend.The United States will impose more than 500 new sanctions on Russian companies, individuals and firms in other countries that supply Russia’s military and industrial production, according to a Treasury Department spokeswoman. Treasury on Friday said it would also sanction Russia’s largest shipping company, while simultaneously granting most of that company’s fleet an exemption to continue to trade without financial penalties. Energy sales are by far the biggest source of revenue for the Kremlin, but Western allies have been wary of shutting off a crucial source of fuel for the global economy, and Friday’s moves appear to do little to alter that.The West’s sanctions on Russia, though billed as among the toughest ever, have thus far failed to deter Putin from carrying out the war in Ukraine, and the announcement of new measures may raise questions about why the United States had not previously targeted these firms. Despite the predictions of some analysts, Russia’s economy grew by more than 3 percent last year — faster than the United States — as Moscow spent extensively to support the war effort. Deputy Treasury Secretary Wally Adeyemo told reporters the United States will not seek to lower the price at which Russians can sell oil, under the existing Western “price cap” that requires purchasers to buy Russian oil at a discounted rate or face severe financial penalties.“You will, of course, see sanctions aimed at Russia’s human rights abuses at home and abroad,” Adeyemo said, previewing an address he is expected to give Monday at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. Adeyemo said additional human rights-related sanctions would be announced by the State Department. “Know that Alexei Navalny’s tragic death, and the abuses that preceded it, will not be forgotten nor go unanswered,” he said.Navalny died last week in a remote Arctic prison colony, and his family and many supporters believe the opposition leader was murdered. President Biden met with his widow and daughter, Yulia and Daria Navalnaya, in San Francisco on Thursday and has said he believes Putin is responsible for the death. The new sanctions come one day before the second anniversary of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, which began on Feb. 24, 2022.“If Putin does not pay the price for his death and destruction, he will keep going. And the costs to the United States — along with our NATO Allies and partners in Europe and around the world — will rise,” Biden said in a statement. “These sanctions will target individuals connected to Navalny’s imprisonment as well as Russia’s financial sector, defense industrial base, procurement networks and sanctions evaders across multiple continents. They will ensure Putin pays an even steeper price for his aggression abroad and repression at home.”The new sanctions target Russia’s ability to import tools critical to advanced manufacturing and technology, aiming to cut off the robotics, industrial automation, software and lasers that are important to Moscow’s military hardware, often acquired from firms abroad. While the Russian economy has continued to grow, U.S. officials maintain that it has only done so by expanding military spending, making it more vulnerable overall to targeted sanctions on international suppliers. European and British officials are joining the U.S. sanctions, aiming to force these international suppliers to pick between the West’s financial system and Russia.“These firms have a choice: Do business with Russia’s military industrial complex or with countries that represent more than 50 percent of the global economy,” Adeyemo said.The United States is also imposing sanctions on the National Card Payments System (NSPK), the Russian central bank-owned operator of the country’s Mir bank card — set up in 2014 as an alternative to Visa and Mastercard. Russia had sought to expand the number of countries accepting its Mir card to bypass a payment blockade by Visa and Mastercard since Russia’s invasion. Payments through Mir have been accepted in Cuba, Venezuela, Vietnam and the former Soviet republics of Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. Turkey also provided an important channel until its state banks — under pressure from the U.S. government — suspended transactions through the system in September 2022.But Sergey Aleksashenko, a former deputy chairman of Russia’s central bank now living in exile in the United States, said the raft of new sanctions would undoubtedly further hit the Russian economy. Although it was difficult to gauge the overall impact since many of the firms targeted were obscure, the cost of transactions for the newly targeted Russian entities would increase, as they’ll have to pay ever-higher commissions to firms enabling them to bypass sanctions via myriad trading routes through India, China and other countries, he said.“For Putin, the economic cost of the war is going to grow,” Aleksashenko said. “But it is not going to be a factor that changes [his] political calculation.”The sanctions targeting NSPK, meanwhile, would mostly impact ordinary Russians trying to make payments abroad, including those in opposition to Putin who have left the country. “This is a clear mistake,” Aleksashenko said.The attempt to tighten financial penalties comes at a perilous moment for Ukraine and its allies, with Republicans in Congress blocking Biden’s proposed foreign aid package amid opposition from former president Donald Trump. Kyiv and its Western allies have grown alarmed by the prospect that military and economic support from the United States could fall through entirely, and Adeyemo called for House Republicans to back the proposal.The Biden administration has argued that the West’s sanctions efforts have hurt the Russian economy and made it more difficult for Putin to fight the war, maintaining that it was never realistic to hope sanctions could stop the fighting altogether. Treasury officials say Russian energy revenue dropped by about 40 percent last year, largely due to the imposition of the price cap.But Russia still earned roughly $99 billion in oil and gas revenue last year, according to S&P Global. Treasury on Friday announced new sanctions on the Russian shipping firm Sovcomflot, as the U.S. tries to make it more expensive for Moscow to sell oil outside the price cap. But it also undercut those sanctions by granting a “general license” that appears to exempt all but 14 of its vessels.“This is very much on the margin,” said Edward Fishman, a former State Department sanctions expert and now a senior research scholar at Columbia University’s Center on Global Energy Policy, who called it a good first step. “The Biden administration should have taken this step a long time ago. But the immediate impact will be muted because it has simultaneously waved sanctions on a majority of Sovcomflot’s fleet.”Ukrainian officials and some allies of the Biden administration have urged them to go further in cutting off Russian energy sales. Eswar Prasad, an economist at Cornell University who worked at the International Monetary Fund, said the latest round of sanctions is “likely to be symbolically important, but substantively of limited value in crimping the Russian economy.” Prasad pointed out that China has stepped up to help Russia and that Kremlin officials have proved adept at circumventing the sanctions and managing their country’s economy.“The trade-off between inflicting pain on the Russian economy and limiting the economic fallout to their own economies has certainly kept the U.S. from tightening the screws to the extent necessary to inflict economic pain on Russia,” Prasad said. “The sobering reality is that these sanctions are not quite having the substantial effect on Russia that had been anticipated.”Adeyemo said U.S. officials are wary that cutting off Russian oil sales too aggressively could cause prices to spike internationally, leading to more revenue for the Kremlin and hurting low-income nations.Biden administration officials have explored the possibility of repurposing more than $350 billion in Russian central bank assets that are currently being held in Western capitals. But with most of those funds in Europe, Adeyemo told reporters on Thursday night that the United States would not act without simultaneous movement from European allies. Some European officials have expressed concern that raiding Russia’s central bank assets could violate international law and undermine the euro.“At [Treasury] Secretary [Janet L.] Yellen’s direction, we’re spending a great deal of time thinking about how we can unlock the economic value of those sovereign assets,” Adeyemo said.Why should you pay the IRS on time? The underpayment penalty is 8%.Put your smugness away. You are not too clever to be conned.Your brain may not want you to build an emergency fund. Here’s why.Sign in or create a free account to save your preferences


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 58

Headline: Eager for Christian votes, Trump stokes religious insecurity
Publish Date: Friday, February 23, 2024 at 04:05 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/23/trump-christians-evangelicals/ 
Description: The former president again taps into the fears of his prospective and likely base.

Content: By occupation, Donald Trump is a salesman. In 2015, he shifted from selling products and condominiums bearing the Trump label to selling Trump directly: himself. And he has proved to be very good at it. Cut through the 2024 election noise. Get The Campaign Moment newsletter.One of the main pitches he makes when selling himself is to present Donald Trump as a bulwark against the world’s evils. To a general population, that means that he focuses on how Democrats and President Biden and the media and communists and whoever are hellbent on uprooting American traditions and values. Every action is offered as a step toward the apocalypse, even as the apocalypse remains stubbornly distant from Americans’ daily lives.

To a religious audience, this presentation is more potent. A struggle between good and evil over the fate of the world is essential to many religious traditions and certainly to the right-wing evangelical Protestants to whom Trump most often tries to appeal. So when speaking to Christian conservatives — as Trump did on Thursday evening — the apocalyptic rhetoric and warnings of imminent doom carry an additional weight. Especially when Trump’s focus is on the threat to Christianity itself.

Trump’s speech carried familiar doomsdayism. The audience was told, for example, that the whoevers had “unleashed mobs of foreign jihadists to praise Hamas in our streets — they’re praising Hamas while they slander law-abiding Americans as domestic terrorists.” They were told that there existed legislation allowing newborn babies to be killed in an extension of abortion rights. They were informed that a second Trump administration would “take back our education system from the communists and the freaks that are destroying it.” The “freaks” here presumably include those advocating the “transgender insanity” he mentioned in the next sentence.

“I will create a new federal task force on fighting anti-Christian bias. It’s become a very big term anti-Christian bias. Not believable that you have a term like that, is it? When you think about it, it’s like, where did that come from? And it’s very, very recent phenomena,” he said. “Its mission will be to investigate all forms of illegal discrimination, harassment and persecution against Christians in America.”

The decline itself isn’t new. In 1976, Tom Wolfe wrote about the emergence of the “Me” generation, observing that, “since the late 1950s both the Catholic Church and the leading Protestant denominations had been aware that young people, particularly in the cities, were drifting away from the faith.” By the time Wolfe was writing, though, it wasn’t just young people. Nor was it just people on the left.

Every four years, the American National Election Studies (ANES) survey evaluates the views of the public. Since the 1960s, there’s been a steady decline in the percentage of Americans who identify as Christian — across political groups. But most Democrats, like most Republicans, are still Christian.

In his two previous bids for the presidency, Trump has been the beneficiary of overwhelming evangelical support. Pew Research Center estimates that Trump won evangelicals by 60 points in 2016 and nearly 70 points four years later. Data from PRRI published in 2021, meanwhile, showed that there was a strong correlation between the percentage of White Christians in a county and Trump’s margin of support.

But it’s mostly on the right that this extension of that insecurity, that sense of embattlement exists. YouGov polling from October (and regularly before that) shows that Republicans are more likely to say that Christians face discrimination than they are to say that Muslim people do — or than they are to say that Black people do.

Of course, this is far less about religion than it is about culture. Conservative Christians who rally around Trump are not doing so because he is a strong Christian. Trump even joked about that during his speech on Thursday, admitting that he “may not know [the Bible] actually so well at all.” They rally around him because he promises to combat broader social change, change that provides space for non-conservative-Christian sentiments and values.

There’s an irony to his rhetoric that Trump probably doesn’t recognize. One of the likely reasons that Republicans are faring better with Black Americans — which Gallup data suggests they are — is that younger Black Americans are less likely to regularly attend church services and Black Americans who don’t attend church are less likely to be Democrats.

But, again, Trump’s a salesman. He’s making a sales pitch to an audience. If atheists made up a fifth of the electorate (as evangelicals did in 2020) and responded fervently to Trump’s rhetoric, does anyone doubt that Trump would happily give speeches to atheist groups centered on how he would be their defender? In this case, he’s telling a group that feels as though it is losing cultural power that it is right and that he will ensure that it doesn’t.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 59

Headline: Wisconsin ethics commission refers Trump fundraising arm for prosecution
Publish Date: Friday, February 23, 2024 at 04:22 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/23/wisconsin-ethics-trump-fundraising-charges/ 
Description: The bipartisan body recommended felony charges against Donald Trump’s Save America committee as well as other Republicans.

Content: Individuals and most political entities can give a maximum of $1,000 each to candidates for the Wisconsin Assembly under state law, but arms of political parties can give them unlimited amounts. The commission alleges that Steen, his campaign and three county Republican parties arranged to sidestep campaign finance laws by having donors give money to one of the county parties, which would then steer it to Steen’s campaign or his vendors, according to the records released Friday.

The ethics commission made its referral against Save America and its agents but did not identify anyone with Save America by name. It alleged that those involved in the efforts committed felonies that can result in penalties of up to 3½ years in prison and fines of $10,000. Additional penalties could be in play if prosecutors pursue conspiracy charges.

Trump claimed Vos did not pursue the investigation with enough vigor and endorsed Steen as he made his out-of-nowhere primary challenge to Vos in 2022. Vos narrowly won that primary, and now Steen’s allies are gathering signatures in hopes of holding a recall election of Vos.

Special investigators hired by the commission determined Steen’s campaign advised those who wanted to give more than $1,000 to his campaign to make their donations to the Republican Party of Langlade County — a rural outpost in northern Wisconsin that is more than 200 miles from the district in southeastern Wisconsin where Steen was challenging Vos. Steen’s campaign told donors to write “63” in the memo line of their checks to the county party, in an apparent reference to Vos’s district number, according to the referral.

Steen recorded many of his phone calls, and the conservative website Wisconsin Right Now obtained copies of them in late 2022. The recordings include one in which Terry Brand, the chairman of the Langlade County party, told Steen they would later identify another county party to help “wash that money.”

Brand said in an interview that he was joking when he mentioned finding someone to “wash” money and noted Vos sponsored the state law that allows parties to make unlimited donations. “I think everything we did was perfectly legal,” he said.

Vos appointed one of the six ethics commissioners, and Brand said he believed the commission was coming after him and the others because they had opposed him. “Robin Vos wants to make sure that nobody ever dares to support a candidate that’s running against him,” Brand said. Vos declined to comment.

The Langlade County party’s support for Steen was widely known, which may have inspired donors to give to it, said Brand and Leonard Boltz, the party’s vice chairman. The county party has been focused on getting rid of Vos because he hasn’t done more to investigate the state’s elections and has blocked attempts to remove the state’s nonpartisan elections director, Boltz said

“We got our money from people and we sent a fair amount of that money to Adam Steen, but it was never directed to do that,” Boltz said. “There was never a contract. Nothing was signed. Nothing was — verbally, there was nothing. So this is a baseless charge.”

The ethics commission consists of three Republicans and three Democrats. It referred charges to Republican prosecutors in six counties because Wisconsin law requires campaign finance cases to be prosecuted where the alleged perpetrator lives if they are a state resident. For out-of-state residents and entities, such as Save America, the alleged violations are prosecuted where they occurred.

If the district attorneys do not act within 60 days, the commission has the authority to refer its request for prosecution to Attorney General Josh Kaul (D). Under state law, the commission must conduct most of its investigative work in secret. It is rare for it to pursue serious charges.

Patricia Hanson, the district attorney in Racine County, said she would make a decision quickly on the referral the commission made against Steen’s campaign. Waukesha County District Attorney Sue Opper said she needed more information from the ethics commission before she could determine how she would proceed. Karl Anderson, the district attorney in St. Croix County, said he did not know how long he would need to determine what to do with a referral he received.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 60

Headline: Far behind Trump, Haley confronts prospect of first South Carolina loss
Publish Date: Friday, February 23, 2024 at 04:47 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/23/haley-trump-south-carolina/ 
Description: Nikki Haley’s long record in the state where she rose to prominence has mostly met a collective shrug ahead of Saturday’s primary as she squares off against Donald Trump, who has drawn widespread support.

Content: “They know her there better than anywhere else, and she can’t get out of the 30s,” said Terry Sullivan, a longtime Republican strategist who worked for one of Haley’s rivals in the 2010 gubernatorial race, referring to her percentage of support in recent polls. “It’s as good as it’s going to get for her. It’s not like they don’t know you well enough. It’s pretty devastating if she loses.”

Haley, who served as Trump’s U. N. ambassador, built her political career in South Carolina, defying the odds to win both her 2004 race for the State House and the 2010 gubernatorial election. (Those victories came after Haley defeated her primary opponents in runoffs). In the lead-up to her White House bid, she proudly boasted that she had “never lost.” But polls show her well behind Trump, whom many in the party see as the presumptive nominee.

It’s Haley’s experience prevailing in previous races in which she was counted out, some associates and observers say, that has prompted her to stay in the race, even though she has yet to win a single state. (The Trump campaign estimates that the former president will lock down the requisite number of delegates to win the nomination by next month.)

“I don’t care about a political future. If I did I would have been out by now,” Haley said here Thursday, speaking outside between palm trees as some supporters looked on from a boat bearing a Nikki Haley sign from the river behind the event. She strained to put a positive touch on her prior defeats, casting her third-place finish in Iowa as “within one percent of second place,” and framing her New Hampshire loss as a win with 43 percent of the vote when she was expected to lose by 30 points.

One South Carolina GOP consultant, who spoke on the condition anonymity to talk more candidly about the race, suggested several possible scenarios for Haley’s thinking: One is that Trump eventually loses in the general election and Haley can be the “I told you so” candidate in 2028. Another “could be as simple as she loves a fight; she likes to be an underdog.” And the third, the consultant said, is the possibility that Trump is convicted (he faces 91 criminal charges) and she is the last person standing — a theory that is popular among voters here in the state who are backing her effort.

“There is risk involved in this endeavor,” said Rob Godfrey, a South Carolina-based consultant and former deputy chief of staff to Haley who is neutral in the race. “The longer you stay in the race and come up short, the likelier you are to alienate people you might want to court down the road, the more potential damage you do to the party’s eventual nominee, and the more resources you divert from the party’s effort to win back the Senate and expand the House majority.”

Trump, meanwhile, boasts strong support in South Carolina, where he has the backing of Republican Gov. Henry McMaster, as well as most of the state’s members of Congress, including GOP Sens. Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott. Scott, whom Haley appointed to the Senate in 2012, is seen as a potential Trump running mate, and he has campaigned for Trump in the state. The South Carolina Republican told reporters Thursday that Haley should step aside “for the good of the country” after Saturday’s primary.

Haley and her campaign have highlighted polling that shows her beating Biden, and in recent weeks she has sharpened her attacks on Trump. Haley campaign spokeswoman Olivia Perez-Cubas attacked Trump over his legal fees and the extent to which he has relied on allied organizations to foot the bills. “No matter what you think about him, this is a losing strategy for November,” she said.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 61

Headline: Trump, Republican candidates express support for IVF in face of political backlash
Publish Date: Friday, February 23, 2024 at 06:33 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/23/ivf-restrictions-republicans-election/ 
Description: The former president and other Republicans distanced themselves from an Alabama Supreme Court ruling that has again highlighted the electoral challenge Republicans face over their stances on abortion and other reproductive rights.

Content: The Alabama court’s decision last week — that frozen embryos should be considered children and that people can be held liable for destroying them — initially was met largely with silence from Republican officeholders and candidates. But many Republican politicians have since sought to embrace IVF procedures, which have been utilized by thousands of families in the United States.

Since the U. S. Supreme Court’s Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization ruling in 2022, which overturned the federal right to an abortion, Republicans have struggled to find a winning electoral strategy to address reproductive rights, particularly abortion. Last November, abortion rights played a role in a string of GOP losses across the country, and voters have rejected every opportunity to limit abortion care in several referendums, including in red states. Some Republicans, meanwhile, have continued to push for a federal abortion ban.

The NRSC memo cited polling that appears to have been conducted by the firm of former Trump White House adviser Kellyanne Conway and that claimed that access to IVF is overwhelmingly popular. Much of the Republican Party for years has embraced the argument that life begins at conception, making that a cornerstone of GOP opposition to abortion. But the decision in Alabama has injected  urgency into a debate that had been on the back burner.

“Government doesn’t need to get into something this sensitive,” Haley said Saturday during an appearance on NBC’s “Today” show. “This should be between the doctor and the parents. Period. ... We want government to allow the conversation to be between the doctor and the parents without government getting in the way on the decisions that are made about them and what happens with these embryos.”

Still, the chair of the NRSC, Sen. Steve Daines (R-Mont.), has co-sponsored several  antiabortion bills. In 2021, he co-sponsored the Life at Conception Act, which would provide equal protection under the 14th Amendment “for the right to life of each born and preborn human person.” The bill also defines “human being” to “include each member of the species homo sapiens at all stages of life, including the moment of fertilization or cloning, or other moment at which an individual member of the human species comes into being.”

Trump has previously said he was “proud” of his role in overturning Roe v. Wade, the landmark Supreme Court decision that protected the right to an abortion. (He appointed three justices, ensuring a conservative majority on the court.) But in a social media post Friday, he said, “I strongly support the availability of IVF for couples who are trying to have a precious baby,” and he subsequently called on the Alabama legislature “to act quickly to find an immediate solution to preserve the availability of IVF in Alabama.” He reiterated his support during a speech Friday evening in Rock Hill, S. C., ahead of Saturday’s Republican presidential primary there.

“This is an issue that a lot of folks have not anticipated since Dobbs and that we are grappling with,” Steve Aden, chief legal counsel for the national antiabortion organization Americans United for Life, said Thursday. His group years ago drew up model legislation to limit the number of embryos created per IVF cycle, and he said he hoped state lawmakers might consider it.

In a subsequent interview Friday, Aden told The Post that he wished Trump “would express a more thoughtful opinion that is based on an understanding of the IVF process and the need for respect for human life throughout it,” adding: “I wouldn’t say I’m at odds with the president’s decision; I guess I’m about halfway there. He needs to understand the issue more fundamentally.”

Republican and Democratic lawmakers in the Alabama legislature have been working to introduce legislation protecting access to IVF following the state Supreme Court’s ruling. House Minority Leader Anthony Daniels (D) filed a bill Thursday stating that a fertilized human egg or embryo outside a uterus will not be considered a person “for any purpose under state law.” Sen. Tim Melson (R) has said he plans to file a bill clarifying that embryos are not viable until they are implanted inside a uterus.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 62

Headline: What is Nikki Haley even doing?
Publish Date: Friday, February 23, 2024 at 08:21 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/23/nikki-haley-south-caroline-gop-primary/ 
Description: A few theories about why she’s staying in an apparently unwinnable race.

Content: Welcome to The Campaign Moment, your guide to the biggest developments in the 2024 not-quite-a-general election. Cut through the 2024 election noise. Get The Campaign Moment newsletter.Today, that moment is the potential beginning of the end for Nikki Haley. Or perhaps the continuation of a drawn-out ending. Whatever you want to call it, this weekend is unlikely to be a happy one for her and is likely to reinforce that her path to victory in the GOP presidential nomination contest is somewhere between vanishing and non-existent.

Losing your home state is bad. Losing it by that much would be really bad. And losing it by that much after losing every other early state in the nominating race — and after losing 2-to-1 to “none of these candidates” in the Nevada primary — would be disastrous.

The problem is Trump’s issues have shown no sign of slowing him down in the GOP primary. Most primary voters have said he’d still be fit to serve as president even if convicted. And Trump has already weathered being found liable in civil court for sexual abuse and financial fraud.

There’s also the timeline problem. Trump’s New York hush-money trial is set to begin March 25, when most states will have already voted in their primaries and caucuses. And it’s likely to last until early May, when the vast majority of states will have voted. A New York Times/Siena College poll in December showed 62 percent of GOP primary voters said even a convicted Trump should still be the nominee if he got the most votes.

It could be rhetoric, sure. But other former GOP contenders have more readily apparent political futures to mind. Fla. Gov Ron DeSantis is still pretty popular in the GOP and could run for president again. Sen. Tim Scott’s career is ongoing in South Carolina. They and others are more plausible Trump VP picks. (It seems likely that loyalty will be Trump’s top requirement.)

Haley has less concern on that front. And that’s because, while there isn’t much of an anti-Trump base in the GOP, the one that does exists is well-heeled. She’s also getting money from President Biden donors who want to see her keep pressing the case against Trump.

Haley is not about to turn into Liz Cheney, the former GOP congresswoman drummed out of office because she turned strongly against Trump over Jan. 6. But nor should we rule out that she truly worries about another Trump term and where he’s taking the party.

We’ve seen a chorus of other Republicans who actually served in Trump’s administration and saw his leadership up-close go on to raise red flags about him. Many of them, like Haley, are foreign-policy hawks who seem to have real convictions on such issues. For example, the former United Nations ambassador continues to make an impassioned case for standing by Ukraine even when that doesn’t appear to be terribly helpful to her primary campaign.

No, Biden isn’t in any apparent danger of losing; a December Post/Monmouth poll showed him leading by 70 points. But more so than virtually any other state, Michigan could give us a sense of how reluctant certain portions of the Democratic base might be to vote for Biden over his handling of the war in the Middle East — in ways that could matter in November.

While a similar effort last month to get New Hampshire Democratic primary voters to write in “cease fire” fizzled — just more than 1 percent, or 1,500 voters did so — the campaign in Michigan is more robust. It even has the support of Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.), a Palestinian American lawmaker. Michigan has one of the nation’s biggest Arab American and Muslim populations; around 300,000 people there claim Middle Eastern or North African ancestry.

As for what the results could actually tell us? Organizers have said they want 10,000 people to vote “uncommitted.” But that’s a very low target, given that about 20,000 people have voted “uncommitted” in other recent Democratic primaries. Biden also won Michigan in the 2020 general election by about 150,000 votes (2.8 percent). More realistically, several tens of thousands of people will probably need to vote “uncommitted” for the effort to truly break through.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 63

Headline: What is Nikki Haley even doing?
Publish Date: Friday, February 23, 2024 at 08:21 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/23/nikki-haley-south-caroline-gop-primary/?itid=lk_interstitial_manual_15 
Description: A few theories about why she’s staying in an apparently unwinnable race.

Content: Welcome to The Campaign Moment, your guide to the biggest developments in the 2024 not-quite-a-general election. Cut through the 2024 election noise. Get The Campaign Moment newsletter.Today, that moment is the potential beginning of the end for Nikki Haley. Or perhaps the continuation of a drawn-out ending. Whatever you want to call it, this weekend is unlikely to be a happy one for her and is likely to reinforce that her path to victory in the GOP presidential nomination contest is somewhere between vanishing and non-existent.

Losing your home state is bad. Losing it by that much would be really bad. And losing it by that much after losing every other early state in the nominating race — and after losing 2-to-1 to “none of these candidates” in the Nevada primary — would be disastrous.

The problem is Trump’s issues have shown no sign of slowing him down in the GOP primary. Most primary voters have said he’d still be fit to serve as president even if convicted. And Trump has already weathered being found liable in civil court for sexual abuse and financial fraud.

There’s also the timeline problem. Trump’s New York hush-money trial is set to begin March 25, when most states will have already voted in their primaries and caucuses. And it’s likely to last until early May, when the vast majority of states will have voted. A New York Times/Siena College poll in December showed 62 percent of GOP primary voters said even a convicted Trump should still be the nominee if he got the most votes.

It could be rhetoric, sure. But other former GOP contenders have more readily apparent political futures to mind. Fla. Gov Ron DeSantis is still pretty popular in the GOP and could run for president again. Sen. Tim Scott’s career is ongoing in South Carolina. They and others are more plausible Trump VP picks. (It seems likely that loyalty will be Trump’s top requirement.)

Haley has less concern on that front. And that’s because, while there isn’t much of an anti-Trump base in the GOP, the one that does exists is well-heeled. She’s also getting money from President Biden donors who want to see her keep pressing the case against Trump.

Haley is not about to turn into Liz Cheney, the former GOP congresswoman drummed out of office because she turned strongly against Trump over Jan. 6. But nor should we rule out that she truly worries about another Trump term and where he’s taking the party.

We’ve seen a chorus of other Republicans who actually served in Trump’s administration and saw his leadership up-close go on to raise red flags about him. Many of them, like Haley, are foreign-policy hawks who seem to have real convictions on such issues. For example, the former United Nations ambassador continues to make an impassioned case for standing by Ukraine even when that doesn’t appear to be terribly helpful to her primary campaign.

No, Biden isn’t in any apparent danger of losing; a December Post/Monmouth poll showed him leading by 70 points. But more so than virtually any other state, Michigan could give us a sense of how reluctant certain portions of the Democratic base might be to vote for Biden over his handling of the war in the Middle East — in ways that could matter in November.

While a similar effort last month to get New Hampshire Democratic primary voters to write in “cease fire” fizzled — just more than 1 percent, or 1,500 voters did so — the campaign in Michigan is more robust. It even has the support of Rep. Rashida Tlaib (D-Mich.), a Palestinian American lawmaker. Michigan has one of the nation’s biggest Arab American and Muslim populations; around 300,000 people there claim Middle Eastern or North African ancestry.

As for what the results could actually tell us? Organizers have said they want 10,000 people to vote “uncommitted.” But that’s a very low target, given that about 20,000 people have voted “uncommitted” in other recent Democratic primaries. Biden also won Michigan in the 2020 general election by about 150,000 votes (2.8 percent). More realistically, several tens of thousands of people will probably need to vote “uncommitted” for the effort to truly break through.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 64

Headline: Trump and his allies scramble to close fundraising gap with Biden
Publish Date: Friday, February 23, 2024 at 11:37 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/23/trump-cash-campaign-biden/?itid=lk_interstitial_manual_46 
Description: Concerns have also grown among top Republicans and other allies that Trump is spending too much political money on his legal bills.

Content: Worries have also grown among top Republicans in Washington and among some allies that Trump is spending too much political money on his legal bills, that his fundraising team is not large enough and that small-dollar donations are slowing. In 2020, Trump’s campaign took advertisements off television for some time because it faced a cash crunch, and Democratic groups and the Biden campaign ultimately spent about $1.2 billion on ads after April 1 of that year — significantly more than the $779 million spent by Trump and groups that supported him, according to the ad-tracking firm Ad Impact.

The fundraising disadvantage has been magnified by a significant drain of legal expenses for Trump’s multiple civil and criminal trials, which he has been paying for with campaign and PAC funds. About 23 percent of spending by Trump’s affiliated committees in 2023 went to legal fees, which are expected to climb this year. Two committees now dedicated largely to paying Trump’s legal bills, Save America leadership PAC and Make America Great Again PAC, spent over $55 million on legal bills in 2023. Save America alone spent about $3 million on legal bills in the first month of 2024.

Facing the gap and cascading legal bills, the former president has agreed for more than a year to do three to five hours a week of “call time” with donors, stunning some advisers who know he has historically avoided the practice. He regularly writes personal letters to donors, signs thank you notes, and sends hats to those he speaks with, while also agreeing to several small dinners and roundtable question and answer sessions with some of the party’s biggest donors, according to Trump advisers.

Just this week, he pulled in more than $10 million in private events in Nashville and in Greenville, S. C., following an event at his Mar-a-Lago Club last week that drew nearly 1,000 people. On recent visits to Las Vegas, he has dined with the late businessman Sheldon Adelson’s widow, Miriam, in recent months, hoping she will repeat her family’s history of spending heavily for the Republican nominee. He has also courted Robert Bigelow, a Nevada real estate magnate who gave $20 million to the former presidential effort of Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis (R) before switching sides.

There is now an open question over whether the RNC, which paid Trump’s legal bills in the past, will again start paying for such expenses. One of Trump’s top advisers told NBC News on Friday that the RNC will not be used to pay legal bills. But Trump has proposed that his daughter-in-law, Lara Trump, help lead the national party this year, and she said this week that Republican voters broadly support using party money to pay for the former president’s legal representations. Ronna McDaniel, in her final weeks as RNC chairwoman, has spent most of her time fundraising, venturing to New York and Palm Beach, Fla., in the last two weeks, among other destinations, but she had stopped having the RNC pay his legal bills after he became a candidate.

Other wealthy friends and prominent donors such as hotelier Steve Wynn have not yet written checks, frustrating Trump, according to people familiar with his comments, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to reveal private conversations. One top Republican official said some prominent donors have not been contacted and that Trump’s team has to expand its size and aperture. A Trump adviser said they were planning to hire additional people in the coming weeks, and the RNC and Trump campaign will all but merge once he, as expected, becomes the de facto nominee.

Some major donors have expressed concerns about their contributions going to legal bills, according to two prominent Republicans who have heard the concerns directly. “They are going to give to Trump but they aren’t just going to give as much if they think it’s being wasted,” said one person who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe the concerns. “These people want to win elections, not pay lawyers.” A Trump adviser said the campaign has not heard this concern directly.

This week, Trump had a fundraiser at the Greenville home of South Carolina casino developer Wallace Cheves, where he was flanked by Gov. Henry McMaster (R), the state’s two U. S. senators and other lawmakers. He raised more than $6 million, a campaign adviser said, with guests coming in from out of state locales as far as Texas. The event, which included a smaller gathering of top donors and a chance to discuss the MAGA Inc. super PAC, was closed to the public and the press.

He had a bigger event at Mar-a-Lago last Friday, where tickets went from $1,000 to enter to $100,000 for a private roundtable — where about 30 people showed up to raise $3 million. At the event, he thanked donors for giving, which he doesn’t always do, even as he railed against the New York judge who recently ruled against him in a civil case and the criminal cases against him, among other topics. About 1,000 people packed into the event.

MAGA Inc. has received a quasi-official blessing from Trump, who transferred money from his leadership PAC at the start of the cycle to seed the organization. In past cycles, Trump took a more hands-off approach to his outside support, focused on his coordinated fundraising with the RNC. The group is now focused on raising large checks as many six-figure donors wait for Trump to start fundraising with party accounts, which can directly coordinate with the campaign. Timothy Mellon, the heir to the banking family of the same name, gave the group another $5 million in January.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 65

Headline: Trump says Black voters like him more because of his indictments and mug shot
Publish Date: Saturday, February 24, 2024 at 05:32 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/24/trump-black-voters-indicted-mug-shot/ 
Description: He cited the 91 felony charges he faces and compared them to unfair treatment from the criminal justice system toward minorities.

Content: COLUMBIA, S. C. — Former president Donald Trump sought to appeal to Black voters on Friday night in South Carolina by repeatedly citing the 91 felony charges he faces and comparing them to unfair treatment from the criminal justice system toward minorities in America.Cut through the 2024 election noise. Get The Campaign Moment newsletter.“A lot of people said that’s why the Black people liked me, because they had been hurt so badly and discriminated against. And they actually viewed me as I’m being discriminated against … Maybe there’s something to it,” he said, right after talking about the charges.

He also cited his mug shot in Georgia — taken last summer after he was charged for trying to overturn the state’s election results — as a reason that Black voters would gravitate toward him in November. Trump said he now saw Black Americans wearing mug shots on their T-shirts.

The former president spoke for about 90 minutes to a room of about 500 Republicans at the Black Conservative Federation’s annual awards gala at a convention center here. The crowd cheered and laughed at some of his more inflammatory lines and many of the attendees defended Trump vigorously. He was flanked onstage by five prominent Black leaders, including former Housing and Urban Development secretary Ben Carson and Rep. Byron Donalds (R-Fla.), and was praised by Sen. Tim Scott (R-S. C.) in a speech before he arrived.

Trump has frequently been criticized by Democrats and some Republicans for his positions on race, including when he dined with a white supremacist, Nick Fuentes, at his Mar-a-Lago club; said there were “many fine people” on both sides after a deadly white supremacist riot in Charlottesville; and called countries like Haiti “shithole countries” while in the White House. For years he amplified the false conspiracy theory that former president Barack Obama, who was born in Hawaii, was actually born in Kenya.

In Friday’s address, Trump said Black voters should prefer him over Obama as part of a story he told about alleged airplane negotiations during his presidency. “Would you rather have the Black president or the White president who got $1.7 billion off the price,” he said, adding that he repeatedly called Obama “Barack Hussein Obama,” raising his inflection on the middle name.

“The audacity of Donald Trump to speak to a room full of Black voters during Black History Month as if he isn’t the proud poster boy for modern racism. This is the same man who falsely accused the Central Park 5, questioned George Floyd’s humanity, compared his own impeachment trial to being lynched, and ensured the unemployment gap for Black workers spiked during his presidency,” said Biden campaign spokeswoman Jasmine Harris. “Donald Trump has been showing Black Americans his true colors for years: An incompetent, anti-Black tyrant who holds us to such low regard that he publicly dined with white nationalists a week after declaring his 2024 candidacy.”

In totality, the message to Black voters Friday night was an economic and public safety message. Trump told the crowd that unemployment, crime and border crossings would all be lower under his presidency and he cited a range of stats that he claimed showed Black voters should abandon Biden. “You want to be able to go get a loaf of bread and not be shot,” he said.

He told the crowd about pardoning many people in office, including Alice Johnson, a Black woman who was convicted on drug charges. Trump said that pardoning people was a highlight of his presidency because people were so grateful to him for the pardons and said he’d pardoned many people in the room, but it was unclear whom. He said that one Black TV host was not grateful enough for him passing the First Step Act, which reduced sentences for some crimes, and cited the law as another reason Black Americans should support him.

“The lights are so bright in my eyes and I can’t see too many people out there. But I can only see the Black ones. I can’t see any White ones. That’s how far I’ve come,” he said, to cheers and laughs.

At one point onstage, he went on a tangent to discuss whether Barry Bonds or Babe Ruth held the home run record in baseball. When the other Black men on the stage said it was Bonds, who is Black, Trump turned to the crowd and said he would agree that it was Bonds.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 66

Headline: Why Trump is likely to dominate South Carolina
Publish Date: Saturday, February 24, 2024 at 11:00 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/24/trump-haley-south-carolina-republican-primary/ 
Description: While both campaigns aggressively recruited pastors in recent weeks, Trump has far more evangelical support in Haley’s home state.

Content: The once quadrennial South Carolina political mud fight has been mostly a snoozer, Republicans across South Carolina say. There have been no viral ads or explosive revelations. Roadside signs are scarce driving across the state. On a recent evening at Salty Nut Cafe in downtown Columbia, many said they were unaware when voting would even occur. Across Columbia, conversation centered more on the undefeated South Carolina women’s basketball team than the election in the days leading up to the GOP primary. Gov. Henry McMaster (R), a Trump supporter, was not even in the state for part of the primary’s final week.

Instead, the state’s top Republicans, who largely did not back Trump in 2016, have lined up behind him en masse, literally and figuratively, lending credence to the argument the election is a fait accompli. His team, along with the state’s top lawmakers, aggressively courted state officials and deployed them across South Carolina — even to events Trump skipped himself — and to New Hampshire to campaign against Haley. The biggest blow, people who know Haley say, was Sen. Tim Scott (R-S. C.) standing onstage with Trump after she lost to him in the Granite State. Haley appointed Scott to his U.S. Senate seat.

Gresham Barrett, a former congressman who is close to Haley, said he has struggled to understand Trump’s grip on the state’s evangelical voters. When he first ran for Congress, Barrett said even an “innuendo of impropriety” could be enough to disqualify a candidate. Now, he said, some of his longtime supporters and Trump backers don’t even want to talk to him after learning he is for Haley. They won’t brook any criticism of Trump, and many voters like him more after he was charged with 91 felonies, Barrett said.

She has sought to make her home state’s primary an actual race, showing a stubborn willingness to keep fighting that many recognize from her time as governor. Haley has spoken at more than 40 events in recent weeks, crossing the state in an emblazoned bus and eviscerating Trump in a way few Republican candidates have done to date, questioning his mental fitness and highlighting his criminal and civil trials, among other criticisms, and saying that Trump cannot win the general election.

Even some who have known Haley for years are perplexed by her kamikaze-style determination to forge ahead, saying she must believe Trump is going to be criminally convicted and Republicans are going to change their mind about their best hope of defeating Biden in November. Others argue Haley wants vindication as the last Republican standing against Trump if he ultimately loses in the fall and the GOP begins to grapple with its choices. And some others say she has a small coterie of advisers — many who have never seen her lose a race — and still has copious money to burn. “Maybe it’s the idea he slips and falls somewhere,” Graham said.

“I was in politics for a long time, and this woman is one of the hardest workers, if not the hardest worker, I have ever seen,” Barrett said. “She is in it for the long haul. She is determined to go to the goal line because she believes she can win, she honestly does. The conversations I’ve had with her, even privately, there is no doubt in her mind she is going to be the nominee.”

“Is she going to stay in until the last vote’s cast? Do you know how irresponsible that is? I’m going to drag the Republican Party through an unnecessary fight with an inevitable outcome all for personal gain,” Timmons said. “If she would have gotten out three weeks ago, people would have respected that. But this is the end of her political career. What she is doing is not good for the Republican Party, not good for the country, not good for her.”


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 67

Headline: Why Trump is likely to dominate South Carolina
Publish Date: Saturday, February 24, 2024 at 11:00 AM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/24/trump-haley-south-carolina-republican-primary/?itid=ms_1 
Description: While both campaigns aggressively recruited pastors in recent weeks, Trump has far more evangelical support in Haley’s home state.

Content: The once quadrennial South Carolina political mud fight has been mostly a snoozer, Republicans across South Carolina say. There have been no viral ads or explosive revelations. Roadside signs are scarce driving across the state. On a recent evening at Salty Nut Cafe in downtown Columbia, many said they were unaware when voting would even occur. Across Columbia, conversation centered more on the undefeated South Carolina women’s basketball team than the election in the days leading up to the GOP primary. Gov. Henry McMaster (R), a Trump supporter, was not even in the state for part of the primary’s final week.

Instead, the state’s top Republicans, who largely did not back Trump in 2016, have lined up behind him en masse, literally and figuratively, lending credence to the argument the election is a fait accompli. His team, along with the state’s top lawmakers, aggressively courted state officials and deployed them across South Carolina — even to events Trump skipped himself — and to New Hampshire to campaign against Haley. The biggest blow, people who know Haley say, was Sen. Tim Scott (R-S. C.) standing onstage with Trump after she lost to him in the Granite State. Haley appointed Scott to his U.S. Senate seat.

Gresham Barrett, a former congressman who is close to Haley, said he has struggled to understand Trump’s grip on the state’s evangelical voters. When he first ran for Congress, Barrett said even an “innuendo of impropriety” could be enough to disqualify a candidate. Now, he said, some of his longtime supporters and Trump backers don’t even want to talk to him after learning he is for Haley. They won’t brook any criticism of Trump, and many voters like him more after he was charged with 91 felonies, Barrett said.

She has sought to make her home state’s primary an actual race, showing a stubborn willingness to keep fighting that many recognize from her time as governor. Haley has spoken at more than 40 events in recent weeks, crossing the state in an emblazoned bus and eviscerating Trump in a way few Republican candidates have done to date, questioning his mental fitness and highlighting his criminal and civil trials, among other criticisms, and saying that Trump cannot win the general election.

Even some who have known Haley for years are perplexed by her kamikaze-style determination to forge ahead, saying she must believe Trump is going to be criminally convicted and Republicans are going to change their mind about their best hope of defeating Biden in November. Others argue Haley wants vindication as the last Republican standing against Trump if he ultimately loses in the fall and the GOP begins to grapple with its choices. And some others say she has a small coterie of advisers — many who have never seen her lose a race — and still has copious money to burn. “Maybe it’s the idea he slips and falls somewhere,” Graham said.

“I was in politics for a long time, and this woman is one of the hardest workers, if not the hardest worker, I have ever seen,” Barrett said. “She is in it for the long haul. She is determined to go to the goal line because she believes she can win, she honestly does. The conversations I’ve had with her, even privately, there is no doubt in her mind she is going to be the nominee.”

“Is she going to stay in until the last vote’s cast? Do you know how irresponsible that is? I’m going to drag the Republican Party through an unnecessary fight with an inevitable outcome all for personal gain,” Timmons said. “If she would have gotten out three weeks ago, people would have respected that. But this is the end of her political career. What she is doing is not good for the Republican Party, not good for the country, not good for her.”


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 68

Headline: Why Trump is likely to dominate South Carolina
Publish Date: Saturday, February 24, 2024 at 11:00 AM
URL: http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/24/trump-haley-south-carolina-republican-primary/?itid=co_sc-gop-primary_3 
Description: While both campaigns aggressively recruited pastors in recent weeks, Trump has far more evangelical support in Haley’s home state.

Content: The once quadrennial South Carolina political mud fight has been mostly a snoozer, Republicans across South Carolina say. There have been no viral ads or explosive revelations. Roadside signs are scarce driving across the state. On a recent evening at Salty Nut Cafe in downtown Columbia, many said they were unaware when voting would even occur. Across Columbia, conversation centered more on the undefeated South Carolina women’s basketball team than the election in the days leading up to the GOP primary. Gov. Henry McMaster (R), a Trump supporter, was not even in the state for part of the primary’s final week.

Instead, the state’s top Republicans, who largely did not back Trump in 2016, have lined up behind him en masse, literally and figuratively, lending credence to the argument the election is a fait accompli. His team, along with the state’s top lawmakers, aggressively courted state officials and deployed them across South Carolina — even to events Trump skipped himself — and to New Hampshire to campaign against Haley. The biggest blow, people who know Haley say, was Sen. Tim Scott (R-S. C.) standing onstage with Trump after she lost to him in the Granite State. Haley appointed Scott to his U.S. Senate seat.

Gresham Barrett, a former congressman who is close to Haley, said he has struggled to understand Trump’s grip on the state’s evangelical voters. When he first ran for Congress, Barrett said even an “innuendo of impropriety” could be enough to disqualify a candidate. Now, he said, some of his longtime supporters and Trump backers don’t even want to talk to him after learning he is for Haley. They won’t brook any criticism of Trump, and many voters like him more after he was charged with 91 felonies, Barrett said.

She has sought to make her home state’s primary an actual race, showing a stubborn willingness to keep fighting that many recognize from her time as governor. Haley has spoken at more than 40 events in recent weeks, crossing the state in an emblazoned bus and eviscerating Trump in a way few Republican candidates have done to date, questioning his mental fitness and highlighting his criminal and civil trials, among other criticisms, and saying that Trump cannot win the general election.

Even some who have known Haley for years are perplexed by her kamikaze-style determination to forge ahead, saying she must believe Trump is going to be criminally convicted and Republicans are going to change their mind about their best hope of defeating Biden in November. Others argue Haley wants vindication as the last Republican standing against Trump if he ultimately loses in the fall and the GOP begins to grapple with its choices. And some others say she has a small coterie of advisers — many who have never seen her lose a race — and still has copious money to burn. “Maybe it’s the idea he slips and falls somewhere,” Graham said.

“I was in politics for a long time, and this woman is one of the hardest workers, if not the hardest worker, I have ever seen,” Barrett said. “She is in it for the long haul. She is determined to go to the goal line because she believes she can win, she honestly does. The conversations I’ve had with her, even privately, there is no doubt in her mind she is going to be the nominee.”

“Is she going to stay in until the last vote’s cast? Do you know how irresponsible that is? I’m going to drag the Republican Party through an unnecessary fight with an inevitable outcome all for personal gain,” Timmons said. “If she would have gotten out three weeks ago, people would have respected that. But this is the end of her political career. What she is doing is not good for the Republican Party, not good for the country, not good for her.”

“Everything we do for Donald Trump puts us on the line as a party. His coattails have been skinny every time, and we keep making the same choice. He needs to go build his museum at Mar-a-Lago so he can up the price for getting in one more time. He’s going to need it because he’s broke,” Dawson said.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 69

Headline: How ‘Libs of TikTok’ became a powerful presence in Oklahoma schools
Publish Date: Saturday, February 24, 2024 at 02:06 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2024/02/24/libs-tiktok-oklahoma-nonbinary-teen-death/ 
Description: Far-right activist Chaya Raichik splits her time between California and Florida. But it’s Oklahoma where she’s arguably had the biggest impact.

Content: LOS ANGELES — Far-right activist Chaya Raichik splits her time between California, where she’s registered to vote, and Florida, where she often travels. But the place where she arguably is having the biggest impact these days is Oklahoma, a state she’s visited only once. Tech is not your friend. We are. Sign up for The Tech Friend newsletter.Raichik, who operates the social media account Libs of TikTok, has amassed an audience of millions on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter, largely by targeting LGBTQ+ people. Last month, Raichik was appointed to the Oklahoma Library Media Advisory Committee by Republican schools superintendent Ryan Walters, a former history teacher who has been called “the state’s top culture warrior” for his opposition to teachers unions and other conservative targets, including LGBTQ+ students’ rights.

Since her appointment, Raichik has sought to pull books depicting gay and transgender people, as well as sex education, from public school libraries, saying she has found “porn” in various districts. But her growing role in the state has drawn greater attention since Nex Benedict, a 16-year-old nonbinary student, collapsed and died the day after a Feb. 7 fight in a girls’ bathroom at Owasso High School in suburban Tulsa. Family members said Benedict had been bullied for months for being openly nonbinary.

Owasso Police Lt. Nick Boatman said Friday that Benedict did not die as a result of physical trauma, according to preliminary information from the medical examiner, and that the department is awaiting the results of toxicology testing to determine the cause of death. Benedict’s parents have questioned that conclusion. Meanwhile, gay rights supporters in Oklahoma and elsewhere have continued to blame the fight for Benedict’s death and to accuse Raichik of bearing some responsibility for the fight.

On Thursday, Oklahoma City Councilor Sean Cummings (D) lambasted Raichik for stoking anti-LGBTQ+ hatred in the state, saying she has “blood on her hands.” And Matt Bernstein, a 25-year-old LGBTQ+ content creator in New York who has been targeted by Raichik, said: “I’m just hearing constantly how Chaya Raichik specifically has caused a rift in the experience of being a queer high-schooler in America.”

As Libs of TikTok, Raichik has been blamed for sparking bomb threats, property damage, shooting threats, written and verbal harassment and other forms of violence against individuals, hospitals and schools across the country — including in Oklahoma, according to GLAAD, a nonprofit LGBTQ+ advocacy group. In her profile picture on X, she is holding a newspaper that reads: “when Libs of TikTok posts, threats increasingly follow.”

On Thursday, in an hour-long interview with a Washington Post reporter at a coffee shop in Los Angeles, Raichik said that “bomb threats are bad” and that she believes “people who call in bomb threats should be arrested.” But she said: “I just don’t know — what does it have to do with me?”

Though she holds a seat on the Oklahoma library advisory committee, Raichik said she has visited the state only once, in September, when she met with Walters. She attempted to speak at a school board meeting to ask about a high school principal who performed as a drag queen, but the board denied her request.

Though she hasn’t spent much time in the state, Raichik has had an outsize influence on its educators. She said she decided to get involved in Oklahoma politics after encountering LGBTQ+ teachers online. Oklahomans “unfortunately have a lot of wokeness in a red state, and I’m trying to help,” she said.

For example, in August, Raichik posted about an elementary school librarian in Tulsa who had a TikTok video with a graphic that said, “POV: Teachers in your state are dropping like flies but you are still just not quite finished pushing your woke agenda at the public school.” Raichik shared the video, which had been edited to include the librarian’s name and school. Shortly afterward, the school received a bomb threat.

Walters, the state’s top schools official, retweeted Raichik’s post. His office did not respond to requests for comment. In announcing Raichik’s appointment to the library board, he posted on Facebook that “no one has done more to expose what the radical left is all about than @ChayaRaichik10 and @libsoftiktok.”

Before her rise to online fame, Raichik worked as a real estate salesperson in Brooklyn. She created the Twitter account that would eventually become Libs of TikTok in November 2020. After attending the Jan. 6, 2021, riot at the U. S. Capitol, she amassed an audience by promoting coronavirus denialism and false stories about child sex trafficking, in addition to casting doubt on the results of the 2020 presidential election.

Raichik’s X account was soon promoted by high-profile right-wing influencers and podcasters including Joe Rogan. Funding from Seth Dillon — founder of Babylon Bee, a satirical conservative news site — allowed her to leave her real estate career and focus on growing the account full-time. (On Thursday, Dillon tweeted that he’d cut ties with Raichik and that the two were “no longer working together.” Raichik told The Post that they’d parted ways for “personal reasons.”)

Raichik’s attacks on LGBTQ+ people escalated through 2021 and 2022. She advocated that any teacher who comes out as gay to their students be “fired on the spot.” She called on her followers to contact schools that were allowing “boys in the girls’ bathrooms” and pushed the false accusation that schools were installing litter boxes in bathrooms for children who identify as cats.

“What Chaya likes to do is create these incendiary posts, letting followers know, ‘This is your target. This is the villain you should go after,’” Sonja said. “Then when things get out of hand, she goes back and deletes her posts. She’s pointing people toward Owasso, and things have escalated since then.”

Alec, 19, who graduated from Owasso High School last year, said things have become so dangerous in Oklahoma for LGBTQ+ youths that he has moved out of state. He spoke on the condition that he be identified by a nickname for safety reasons.

“As a person who was in those libraries and saw those bans on books that actually apply to my community, it was very scary seeing my state erasing the LGBTQ community as a whole, and saying that we are pornographic and that we are unacceptable and inappropriate for people to just exist around and to learn about,” Alec said. “We are simply just existing.”

Libs of TikTok “is a platform that’s cited a lot and lifted up by a lot of officials across the state,” McAfee said. “From what we’ve heard from students, it’s really changed how other students treat them. Students who didn’t have any trouble being openly trans or nonbinary before are now being bullied by class members who are repeating rhetoric that they’re hearing from public officials in the state.”


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 70

Headline: Haley trails Trump but is winning with young girls
Publish Date: Saturday, February 24, 2024 at 02:17 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/24/nikki-haley-young-girls-legacy/ 
Description: At dozens of campaign stops across multiple states, young girls have made up an unusually large segment of Nikki Haley’s rally crowds.

Content: Haley, a disciplined candidate who rarely departs from her stump speech, is often at her most animated while talking to the young girls who make up an unusually large segment of the crowds at her rallies. At dozens of campaign stops across multiple states, Haley beelined to talk to the girls, frequently offering them an extra touch of attention, such as adding a bonus message or hand-drawn heart to her autograph, or urging them to be “strong girls.”

The interactions may prove to be something of a legacy for the Haley campaign, which has netted few electoral accomplishments. She trails former president Donald Trump by nearly 30 points in polls ahead of Saturday’s primary in her home state of South Carolina but insists she will remain in the race.

Haley has walked a fine line on gender in her campaign, seeking to highlight her differences from her opponents as a woman of color but insisting that she does not believe in identity politics, or that there are “glass ceilings” limiting women. Her critics have accused her of diminishing barriers women face and selectively using her identity — and they’ve noted her opposition to abortion rights, an animating issue for many female voters.

She’s also deployed her rallying cry for “strong girls” politically — to oppose trans athletes playing on girls sports teams, a debate she has called the “women’s issue of our time.” One of her biggest applause lines on the campaign trail is: “Strong girls become strong women, strong women become strong leaders, and none of that happens if you have biological boys playing in girls sports.”

Still, her approach is an obvious contrast from Trump, who has a history of publicly denigrating women and was found liable for sexual abuse in a civil trial last year. And it’s a reminder of the ways that Republicans continue to struggle to appeal to women, as the party consolidates behind Trump rather than backing a candidate who could be the nation’s historic first female president and who has preformed better with suburban female voters, many of whom left the party because of Trump.

“When these girls see me, what it is they’re seeing is they just want to see what they can be,” Haley said in an interview this week aboard her campaign bus before a stop in Clemson, S. C., noting she never saw women or “any brown people” in leadership positions as a child. “They just want to see someone that looks like them.”

She compared men who “jump first and think after” to women who “think and think and think and think, and you have to almost push them to jump.” That difference, she said, is why she encourages women and the girls who attend her events “to push through the fear.”

Some of the girls’ excitement about Haley has helped win over voting-age relatives, like Jessica, a New Hampshire woman who attended a Haley meet-and-greet last month with her 5-year-old daughter, Cora, who brought a drawing of Haley that the candidate autographed. Cora, her mom said, became a fan of Haley after responding to seeing a woman running on TV and on the political mailers the family received.

“Cora’s been with her since day one,” said Jessica, who asked that only her first name be used to protect her daughter’s privacy. While she originally supported former Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson, she decided to support Haley after he suspended his campaign, in part due to Cora’s enthusiasm for her. Haley had her best showing in New Hampshire, securing 43 percent of the vote, but lost to Trump.

Her young supporters have brought signs to her event proclaiming themselves “in our Nikki Haley era,” another reference to Swift, and — when she wore a hot pink blazer on the trail — compared her to Barbie. (Haley said her favorite Swift song is “Anti-Hero,” “the one that like, where she talks about her daughter-in-law killing her for the money.”)

“In history class you hear about all these famous men and people, but they’re all men. There’s no women,” said Mary Claire Griffith, 12, who attended a Haley event in Greenwood, S. C., this month with her grandmother. “And I’m really excited to see what she’s going to do and what she can do for America.”

Added her 8-year-old sister, Carolina: “These boys over here, they think they got everything. They can just do whatever. And they try to [do] what they want to do, and they don’t care about what we think.”

“I just try and make them feel like they’re the most important person in the room,” said Haley, who has worn some of the bracelets on key dates, like the New Hampshire primary or for a speech Tuesday during which she promised to continue her campaign.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 71

Headline: Haley trails Trump but is winning with young girls
Publish Date: Saturday, February 24, 2024 at 02:17 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/24/nikki-haley-young-girls-legacy/?itid=ms_2 
Description: At dozens of campaign stops across multiple states, young girls have made up an unusually large segment of Nikki Haley’s rally crowds.

Content: Haley, a disciplined candidate who rarely departs from her stump speech, is often at her most animated while talking to the young girls who make up an unusually large segment of the crowds at her rallies. At dozens of campaign stops across multiple states, Haley beelined to talk to the girls, frequently offering them an extra touch of attention, such as adding a bonus message or hand-drawn heart to her autograph, or urging them to be “strong girls.”

The interactions may prove to be something of a legacy for the Haley campaign, which has netted few electoral accomplishments. She trails former president Donald Trump by nearly 30 points in polls ahead of Saturday’s primary in her home state of South Carolina but insists she will remain in the race.

Haley has walked a fine line on gender in her campaign, seeking to highlight her differences from her opponents as a woman of color but insisting that she does not believe in identity politics, or that there are “glass ceilings” limiting women. Her critics have accused her of diminishing barriers women face and selectively using her identity — and they’ve noted her opposition to abortion rights, an animating issue for many female voters.

She’s also deployed her rallying cry for “strong girls” politically — to oppose trans athletes playing on girls sports teams, a debate she has called the “women’s issue of our time.” One of her biggest applause lines on the campaign trail is: “Strong girls become strong women, strong women become strong leaders, and none of that happens if you have biological boys playing in girls sports.”

Still, her approach is an obvious contrast from Trump, who has a history of publicly denigrating women and was found liable for sexual abuse in a civil trial last year. And it’s a reminder of the ways that Republicans continue to struggle to appeal to women, as the party consolidates behind Trump rather than backing a candidate who could be the nation’s historic first female president and who has preformed better with suburban female voters, many of whom left the party because of Trump.

“When these girls see me, what it is they’re seeing is they just want to see what they can be,” Haley said in an interview this week aboard her campaign bus before a stop in Clemson, S. C., noting she never saw women or “any brown people” in leadership positions as a child. “They just want to see someone that looks like them.”

She compared men who “jump first and think after” to women who “think and think and think and think, and you have to almost push them to jump.” That difference, she said, is why she encourages women and the girls who attend her events “to push through the fear.”

Some of the girls’ excitement about Haley has helped win over voting-age relatives, like Jessica, a New Hampshire woman who attended a Haley meet-and-greet last month with her 5-year-old daughter, Cora, who brought a drawing of Haley that the candidate autographed. Cora, her mom said, became a fan of Haley after responding to seeing a woman running on TV and on the political mailers the family received.

“Cora’s been with her since day one,” said Jessica, who asked that only her first name be used to protect her daughter’s privacy. While she originally supported former Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson, she decided to support Haley after he suspended his campaign, in part due to Cora’s enthusiasm for her. Haley had her best showing in New Hampshire, securing 43 percent of the vote, but lost to Trump.

Her young supporters have brought signs to her event proclaiming themselves “in our Nikki Haley era,” another reference to Swift, and — when she wore a hot pink blazer on the trail — compared her to Barbie. (Haley said her favorite Swift song is “Anti-Hero,” “the one that like, where she talks about her daughter-in-law killing her for the money.”)

“In history class you hear about all these famous men and people, but they’re all men. There’s no women,” said Mary Claire Griffith, 12, who attended a Haley event in Greenwood, S. C., this month with her grandmother. “And I’m really excited to see what she’s going to do and what she can do for America.”

Added her 8-year-old sister, Carolina: “These boys over here, they think they got everything. They can just do whatever. And they try to [do] what they want to do, and they don’t care about what we think.”

“I just try and make them feel like they’re the most important person in the room,” said Haley, who has worn some of the bracelets on key dates, like the New Hampshire primary or for a speech Tuesday during which she promised to continue her campaign.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 72

Headline: With abortion rights looming, Missouri GOP advances slanted ballot rules
Publish Date: Saturday, February 24, 2024 at 02:42 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2024/02/24/missouri-gop-abortion/ 
Description: The proposal would make it much more difficult for the left — but not the right — to pass amendments to the state constitution. And it comes as abortion-rights activists aim to get something on the November ballot.

Content: Ohio Republicans last year suffered a double blow in their efforts to thwart the steady nationwide progress of abortion rights ballot measures. First they tried and failed to require ballot measures to get 60 percent of the vote, in a transparent ploy to raise the threshold for an abortion rights amendment to the state constitution. Voters rejected that, with 57 percent voting against a 60 percent threshold. Then they lost on the actual abortion rights amendment by about the same margin, making Ohio the latest red state to vote in favor of abortion rights.

Abortion rights activists in the state are working to get an amendment to the state constitution on the ballot in November. But the GOP-controlled Missouri state Senate on Thursday approved a measure that could make such things significantly more difficult — at least for the left.

The proposal, which passed along party lines, would require amendments to receive not only a majority of the vote statewide — as is currently required — but also a majority in five of eight congressional districts.

This would be a much bigger hurdle for those on the left, because Missouri has five very Republican congressional districts.

There is plenty to work out, with the state House preferring an alternative version that includes extraneous language meant to lure voters to support the measure. And voters would have to approve it. But the Associated Press reports that Republicans aim to get it on the August primary ballot — in other words, to put the new requirements into effect before voters would potentially vote on abortion rights in November.

The ostensible purpose, as in Ohio, is to ensure that amendments to the state constitution have broad support. More practically, it would empower very Republican-leaning congressional districts to kill something that might have clear majority support in the state.

If this raised threshold were in place for November, it would likely mean that an abortion rights amendment would not only need to win a 62 percent Trump district, but also one of four districts that gave Trump more than 67 percent. That’s a significantly higher bar.

For comparison, the Ohio abortion rights amendment last year got 57 percent of the vote in a state that gave President Biden 45 percent in 2020. It overperformed Biden by 12 points.

For an abortion rights amendment to pass in Missouri’s 6th Congressional District — the most attainable of the state’s four heavily Republican districts — it would need to overperform Biden’s 2020 performance (30.6 percent) there by nearly 20 points.

That district, represented by Republican Sam Graves, favored Trump 67.7 percent to 30.6 percent in 2020. (To get a sense of how red that is, it’s comparable to the second-reddest state in the 2020 election, West Virginia, which went for Trump 68.6 percent to 29.7 percent).

It remains to be seen whether GOP lawmakers in Missouri will press forward. The Ohio example showed that voters don’t particularly like seeing direct democracy watered down. And it wasn’t the first state in recent years — or even the first red state — to vote against changes making it harder to amend the state constitution. Arkansas and South Dakota voters have done the same.

Those measures focused on raising the statewide threshold; Missouri’s is a little more difficult to grasp but could make such measures even harder to pass.


---

ARTICLE NUMBER 73

Headline: Behind Trump’s musical tribute to some of the most violent Jan. 6 rioters
Publish Date: Tuesday, May 07, 2024 at 10:00 PM
URL: https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/interactive/2023/trump-j6-prison-choir/?itid=ap_isaacarnsdorf&itid=lk_inline_manual_14 
Description: As he seeks a return to the White House, Trump has intentionally and prominently embraced the cause of Jan. 6 prisoners, some of whom were the most violent that day.

Content: Behind Trump’s musical tribute to some of the most violent Jan. 6 riotersFormer president Donald Trump puts his hand on his heart while the song "Justice for All," featuring his voice and the “J6 Prison Choir,” plays during a campaign rally in Waco, Tex., on March 25. (Evan Vucci/AP)Warning: This graphic requires JavaScript. Please enable JavaScript for the best experience. Most nights at 9 p.m., defendants in the Jan. 6, 2021, attack on the U.S. Capitol flicker the lights in their D.C. jail cells to signal to supporters outside that it’s time to sing “The Star-Spangled Banner” together. The recital has become a sacred ritual for a subset of Donald Trump’s movement devoted to heroizing the accused rioters.The former president is now embracing their cause, lending his voice to a recording of the “J6 Prison Choir” and playing it to start the first rally of his 2024 presidential campaign. The song, “Justice for All,” features Trump reciting the Pledge of Allegiance mixed with a rendition of the national anthem.“Our people love those people,” Trump went on to say at the rally, speaking of those who were jailed. “What’s happening in that prison, it’s a hellhole. ... These are people that shouldn’t have been there.”Former president Donald Trump played “Justice for All,” a song with his voice and the "J6 Prison Choir,” ahead of a campaign rally in Waco, Tex. on March 25. (The Washington Post)The nightly singing inside the jail was captured in a video that Trump allies have shared online in the past two months. The D.C. Department of Corrections confirmed that the video was taken in one of the jail’s housing units. The agency is now investigating. Spokeswoman Sylvia Lane declined to elaborate on the nature of the probe but said that “any social media use or video-sharing platforms is prohibited” for detainees.Using physical characteristics and interviews with family members, supporters and attorneys, The Washington Post identified five of the roughly 15 men who are featured in the video. Four of them were charged with assaulting police, using weapons such as a crowbar, sticks and chemical spray, including against Officer Brian D. Sicknick, who died the next day.The first instance that The Post could find of the video online was in a March 1 tweet by a lawyer for Ryan Nichols, the defendant seen holding the camera in the video. The lawyer, Joseph D. McBride, did not respond to requests for comment. Based on the men who appear in the video, it was filmed sometime before last November, when Nichols was released.The audio for the single “Justice for All” was recorded in February by congregating the inmates in different areas of the jail with better acoustics, according to Donna Fiducia, a host on Real America’s Voice, a right-wing news network, who said she helped advise the group on making the recording and getting it to editors at the network. Fiducia said she did not know which inmates participated, and the Trump allies who produced “Justice for All” — Kash Patel, a former White House aide and current Trump adviser, and Ed Henry, another Real America’s Voice host — declined to identify the choir members.Trump recorded himself saying the Pledge of Allegiance after he heard about the production and wanted to participate, according to the campaign. The Trump campaign said it did not produce “Justice for All” and does not know the names of the singers. When asked about the origin of the song, the campaign referred The Post to the online video as it appeared on the video-sharing website Rumble.The finished track premiered on March 3, and it quickly hit No. 1 in the Apple iTunes music store and made the Billboard chart. Trump immediately began promoting the song on social media, leading up to playing it at his March rally. “It was very much an honor,” Trump told reporters on his plane after the rally, explaining that playing the song there had been his idea. “Those people were treated very badly. ... I think it’s a disgrace.”[Trump takes support for Jan. 6 rioters to new level, collaborates on a song]Kenneth Sicknick, the brother of the deceased officer, told The Post he was “disgusted” by Trump’s glorification of the prisoners. “The rallying cry is that no police officer died on Jan. 6, and they leave out inconvenient things like my brother’s first stroke happened on Jan. 6, and he was put on life support and died the following day,” he said. “And they do that over and over and over again.”The former president leads early polls for the 2024 Republican nomination as he faces growing legal peril and continues to promote false claims about the 2020 election. He has previously floated pardoning Jan. 6 rioters if he returns to the White House, and at a campaign stop recently, he embraced a woman convicted of defying police orders on Capitol grounds on Jan. 6. He has often praised Ashli Babbitt, who was fatally shot trying to enter the House chamber by Capitol Police, and also called in to a vigil outside the jail that typically features Babbitt’s mother, Micki Witthoeft, and other supporters of the inmates.In the video from inside the jail, Nichols begins by referencing Witthoeft and the vigil. “Everybody’s outside right now,” Nichols says to the camera. As Nichols moves the camera to show a wider view of the full group, several of the men say, “We love you, Micki,” referring to Babbitt’s mother.Nichols faces multiple charges, including assault on a federal officer with a weapon. Footage from Jan. 6 shows him using some kind of chemical spray, according to prosecutors. Nichols is awaiting trial after pleading not guilty to all counts and was released in November. Nichols’s wife declined to comment.Nichols highlight: Men awaiting trial or sentencing for their actions at the Jan. 6 insurrection sing the national anthem at the D.C. jail. (Illustration by Tucker Harris/The Washington Post)Obstruction of an official proceeding and aiding and abettingAssaulting, resisting or impeding certain officers using a dangerous weaponEntering and remaining in a restricted building or grounds with a deadly or dangerous weaponDisorderly and disruptive conduct in a restricted building or grounds with a deadly or dangerous weaponAct of physical violence in the Capitol grounds or buildingsRyan Nichols, identified by the U.S. Attorney's Office, waves a crowbar and shouts at the crowd at the Capitol on Jan. 6. (U.S. Attorney’s Office District of Columbia)“We are going to do what we do every night at 9 o’clock,” Nichols says: “Sing the national anthem.”Shane Jenkins, wearing a white T-shirt and standard orange pants, leans forward, puts his hand on Nichols’s shoulder and gestures a thumbs-up to the camera. Jenkins is bald with a full, distinctive beard and small tattoo under his right eye. He then ducks behind another inmate, reviews something on a piece of paper and joins in the singing.Jenkins highlight: Men awaiting trial or sentencing for their actions at the Jan. 6 insurrection sing the national anthem at the D.C. jail. (Illustration by Tucker Harris/The Washington Post)Found guilty of all charges at trial on March 29. Awaiting sentencing.Obstructing an official proceeding and aiding and abettingAssaulting, resisting or impeding certain officers using a deadly or dangerous weaponEntering and remaining in a restricted building or grounds with a deadly or dangerous weaponDisorderly and disruptive conduct in a restricted building or grounds with a deadly or dangerous weaponEngaging in physical violence in a restricted building or grounds with a deadly or dangerous weaponDisorderly conduct in the Capitol grounds or buildingsAct of physical violence in the Capitol grounds or buildingsShane Jenkins, identified by The Post based on his red hat, blue sweatshirt and tattoos. (U.S. Attorney’s Office District of Columbia)Jenkins was found guilty of all charges at trial on March 29 for his role in the brutal, hours-long fight between rioters and police on the Capitol’s Lower West Terrace. He threw multiple objects at police, including a desk drawer and a flagpole, and he tried to break a window of the Capitol building with a metal ax, according to court records. He has a criminal history that includes convictions for evading or resisting arrest.Jenkins’s attorney confirmed that the man in the video was his client but said Jenkins did not participate in the version of the song that was promoted by Trump.The camera pans toward a pay phone. The majority of the men wave, including a tall man with a long, graying beard and dark framed glasses, whom The Post identified as William Chrestman.Chrestman highlight: Men awaiting trial or sentencing for their actions at the Jan. 6 insurrection sing the national anthem at the D.C. jail. (Illustration by Tucker Harris/The Washington Post)Conspiracy to commit an offense against the United StatesObstruction of an official proceeding and aiding and abettingObstructing of law enforcement during civil disorder and aiding or abettingEntering and remaining in a restricted building or grounds with a deadly or dangerous weaponDisorderly conduct on Capitol grounds with a deadly or dangerous weaponChrestman is awaiting trial and pleaded not guilty to all counts. He’s accused of leading a Kansas City-area group of Proud Boys and telling a Capitol Police officer, “You shoot, and I’ll take your f---ing ass out!” as well as using an ax handle to keep police from closing building gates. A lawyer for Chrestman declined to comment.William Chrestman, identified by the U.S. Attorney's Office, is accused of using an ax handle to obstruct a metal barricade within the Capitol on Jan. 6. (Parler)“We’re doing our own little photo shoot,” Jonathan Mellis, identifiable by his distinctive glasses and bushy, shoulder-length, dark curly hair, says as he holds up the pay phone receiver.Mellis highlight: Men awaiting trial or sentencing for their actions at the Jan. 6 insurrection sing the national anthem at the D.C. jail. (Illustration by Tucker Harris/The Washington Post)Obstruction of an official proceedingAssaulting, resisting or impeding certain officers using a dangerous weaponEntering and remaining in a restricted building or grounds with a deadly or dangerous weaponDisorderly and disruptive conduct in a restricted building or grounds with a deadly or dangerous weaponImpeding ingress and egress in a restricted building or grounds with a deadly or dangerous weaponEngaging in physical violence in a restricted building or grounds with a deadly or dangerous weaponImpeding passage through the Capitol grounds or buildingsAct of physical violence in the Capitol grounds or buildings“When I heard that, knowing my son’s voice was there, it’s become very meaningful,” Mellis’s mother, Donna, said through tears, recalling when she first heard “Justice for All.” “Every time I hear it, I get chills and goose bumps because it means so much to us.” She said Mellis declined to comment directly. Mellis, who was captured on video repeatedly hitting police officers with a giant stick in the same tunnel battle as Jenkins, was set to plead guilty Friday, but his hearing was rescheduled to later this month.Jonathan Mellis, identified by The Post based on his cowboy hat, beard and glasses, is seen amid the throngs of people at the Capitol on Jan. 6. (U.S. Attorney’s Office District of Columbia)Julian Khater, whom Mellis identifies by name in the video, gives a thumbs-up and recites a prayer written on a piece of paper into the phone. His identity was also confirmed by his brother Michael.Khater highlight: Men awaiting trial or sentencing for their actions at the Jan. 6 insurrection sing the national anthem at the D.C. jail.  (Illustration by Tucker Harris/The Washington Post)Incarcerated after pleading guilty and being sentenced to 80 months in prison.Khater pleaded guilty to using chemical spray on Sicknick, the officer who died the day after the insurrection. (The D.C. medical examiner concluded that Sicknick died of natural causes after two strokes, but that “all that transpired on that day played a role in his condition.”) Khater was recently sentenced to 80 months in prison. He was transferred out of the D.C. jail and committed to a medium-security federal prison in early March.Julian Khater, identified by the U.S. Attorney's Office, releases a chemical spray toward officers guarding the entrance to the Capitol on Jan. 6. (U.S. Attorney’s Office District of Columbia)All inmates share access to tablets that allow texting and phone calls from 9 a.m. to 11 p.m. daily, according to the D.C. Department of Corrections, which oversees the jail. They each additionally have an individual tablet during the same time span where they are able to do legal research, process grievances, attend religious services and educational classes, and message their attorneys.The inmates and their supporters on right-wing media have circulated complaints about the conditions in the jail and allegations of constitutional violations. There is no evidence of anyone being held without charges. The people being held in the jail are there while they are being processed, awaiting sentencing or awaiting trial after a judge deemed them too dangerous or too much of a flight risk to release.On a recent congressional tour of the facility, Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.) alleged the prisoners told her “stories of being denied medical treatment, stories of assault, stories of being threatened with rape.” Two Democrats on the visit accused her of misleading the public and said the conditions were unremarkable. Rep. Jasmine Crockett (D-Tex.), a former public defender and civil rights attorney in the Dallas area, said she’d seen far worse jails in Texas and Arkansas.One inmate, Donald Hazard, who recently moved to the D.C. jail, called it an improvement over the facility where he was being held before, mostly on account of being around fellow Jan. 6 defendants.“It’s a lot better to be around a bunch of hardcore patriots rather than hardcore dopers and criminals,” Hazard, who pleaded guilty to assaulting police, said in a call to the vigil outside. “When I get out of here, I’m back in the fight. They’ll have to kill me to stop me.”At the nightly vigils, which have gone on since August, supporters bring pizza, doughnuts and coffee, and even tents to brave bad weather. Some people who live in the area drive for hours to come several nights a week, while others from around the country pass through for several days at a time. Prisoners often call in to show appreciation for and solidarity with the demonstrators.Nicole Reffitt, whose husband, Guy, was convicted of bringing a gun to the riot, said Trump’s use of the recording boosted the prisoners’ morale, but she also expressed some discomfort with how he was using them for his own political purposes.“Even though Trump did get involved in that — and I’m thankful because it did get them attention — I think he only played it because he’s involved,” she told The Post during a recent vigil. “Trump is about himself, and ‘Make America Great [Again]’ is about America, and those are two different things.”Trump, who frequently focuses on measures of popularity such as crowd sizes and ratings, has also taken pride in the single’s sales. “I feel like Elvis,” he said in a recent interview with Fox News’s Sean Hannity. “It was Number 1, and you know what, that is a tribute to the fact that people feel the J6 people have been very unfairly treated.”Proceeds from the song would benefit the prisoners and their families, according to Patel, the Trump adviser who helped produce the track. ITunes and digital streaming platforms typically pay music royalties around three months later, which would set the first revenue from the track to arrive in approximately June.Trump’s musical selections have provoked controversy before, such as his use last year of a stock instrumental soundtrack that was embraced by followers of the radicalized ideology known as QAnon. Trump continued using the anthem to close his rallies after the connection was widely publicized.Now, his prominently aligning himself with the Jan. 6 prisoners coincides with his deepening entanglement with the criminal justice system, as he fights charges of falsifying business records in New York and faces three additional criminal probes by a Georgia district attorney and a U.S. Justice Department special counsel. He and his allies are trying to portray the investigations as politicized, alongside other conservatives who they claim are being persecuted for their views.Trump walks into Mar-a-Lago, his Palm Beach, Fla., estate, on April 4. (Saul Martinez for The Washington Post)When Trump returned to his Mar-a-Lago estate on April 4 after his arraignment in New York, he addressed supporters in the ballroom, then ate dinner and DJed for a small group of aides and guests until around 2 a.m. One of the songs he picked on his iPad to pipe into the club’s speakers was “Justice for All,” the recording of him with the “prison choir.” The former president led his guests in standing with his hand over his heart while the song played.Emily Davies and Dan Rosenzweig-Ziff contributed to this report. Editing by Sean Sullivan, Elyse Samuels and Kainaz Amaria. Copy editing by Emily Morman. Design and development by Tucker Harris. Capitol grounds illustration by Aaron Steckelberg. Promotional illustration by Daron Taylor.Methodology: Multiple forensic audio experts compared the vocals of the Rumble video to the “Justice for All” track at The Post’s request. They said the single was heavily produced and, so, they couldn’t say with certainty to what degree, if any, the polished recording included the prisoners’ voices. Separately, The Post sent the video from the jail to multiple experts who said there was no evidence the recording was fabricated or included synthetic media of any kind.Five Republicans and three Democrats have officially declared they are running for their party’s 2024 presidential nomination, and plenty of others are making moves. We’re tracking 2024 presidential candidates here.Republicans: Donald Trump, Nikki Haley, Vivek Ramaswamy, Asa Hutchinson and Larry Elder, have announced they are running for president in 2024. Here is The Post’s ranking of the top 10 Republican presidential candidates for 2024.Democrats: President Biden has officially announced he is running for reelection in 2024. Author Marianne Williamson and anti-vaccine advocate Robert Kennedy Jr., both long-shot candidates, are also seeking the Democratic nomination. Here is The Post’s ranking of the top 10 Democratic presidential candidates for 2024.

Isaac Arnsdorf is a national political reporter for The Washington Post who covers former president Donald Trump, the “Make America Great Again” political movement and the Republican Party.   Meg Kelly is a video reporter for The Washington Post's Visual Forensics team.     Tom Jackman has been covering criminal justice for The Washington Post since 1998 and anchors the True Crime blog. He previously covered crime and courts for the Kansas City Star.


---

